Jerufalem’s Captivities Lamented:o R, APLAIN DESCRIPTIONJ E R u s A L e M.From Joihua’s time to the Year 1517, bothfrom Scripture and ancient Hiftorv.I. The antiquity of tbr city, and. number of in-habitants, <vfitb the depth and breadth of the. trenches, height of the Ms, and the num¬ber Of the-toners that food thereon.II. The greatnefs of the people, and glory ofthe Santtum Sanftorun^, or the Ho fa of Ho-I- j}<is t wi'b a defcription of the birth, life,and death of our bleffed -SAVIOUR, andthe miraculous wonders that happened about• that time,III. The fad and lamentable defruElion anddeflation ofjerufalem, by fire, fwosd, fa¬mine and pef Hence.' EDINBURGHr:PRIKTED and sold by j. morren,Eaf Campbells Clofe^ Cowgate*( * )APLAIN DESCRIPTIONO FJERUSALE M.JERUSALEM was a principal city inJolhua’s time, when Adonib^zek wasking-, who Was flam by him ; yet the Je-buhtes held it for four hundred years after,till David won it; though the* inhabitantsboafted that their blind and their lamewould defend it, 2 Sam. v. 6. Davidflrengthened it with a caflle, and beautifiedit with palaces; after this, Solomon en¬larged it, and further beautified and forti¬fied it; the palace gates and walls couldnot be patched in all the world. It hadwithin the walls one hundred and fifty thou-land inhabitants, befides women and chil¬dren.The trenches about it were fixty feet deepcut out of the rock, and two hundred andfifty broad. Not long after Shifliak king ofEgypt took, it, and became mafter of Solo¬mon’s riches, and of all king David’s fpoil,which he had taken from many nations, 2Kings xiv. It was again plundered and partJerufalcm's Captivities Lamented, 3of the-wall broken down by Joafh king ofli'rael, in Amaziah’s reign, 2 Kings xvi.biot long after, Ahas, the 14th king of Ju-‘dhh, impoverifhed the temple, to prefentTiglath-pilnezer with the treafures thereof,•and Mannaffeh loil v/hat remained, 1 Chron. 5.And Nebuchadnezzar laid this gloriousabity with the temple, palace walls anditowers, even with thd ground, 2 Kings xix.After eighteen months fiege, in the eleventh.year of Zedekiah, the ninth day oi the fourthmonth which was in the eighteenth year ofNebuchadnezzar’s reign, the princes of Ba-• bylon furprized and took this brave city;j prefently after Nebuzar-aden, general of theBabylonian army, commanded by Nebuchad¬nezzar, fpoiled the temple, carrying awaythe velfels of gold and filver, and the greatlaver, given by king Solomon, and burnt the. temple the firft day of the next month, whichy/as twenty-one days after the furprifal, 470years, fix months, and ten days after thefoundation; 963 years, fix months and ten; days after the departure of the people out ofi Egypt; 1760 years, and fix months after theflood ; 3516 years fix months, and ten daysafter the creation. Thus, and then was thecity of Jerufalem taken, and far feventy yearsthe Jews remained in this captivity.It was built again by Nehemiah, 2 Chron. '• I, ii, in, iv. The temple and city was fpoiled- again by Burgofes, lieutenant to Artaxerex-es.yerufakm'i Captivies Lamented.«, then by Ptolemeus the firft, then by An-tiochus Ejijphaneos, and again by Appollo-p US dePuty J after which, it was taken by-r-V . ctiLd wiucn, it was taken byFompey, and robbed by CraiTus, in his Par-thian expedition^ Yet all the Ioffes the tern.A • 7 n . -LWL ^ U1C loaes tne tem¬ple and city fuftamed, were repaired by He¬rod the Great, who enlarged the dity, new-bmlt the temple, and left it both ftately andgionous It was compaffed with three ftfomrwads the third wall had ninety towers, thefecond wall had fourteen, and the old wallhad fixty Agrippa built a fourth wall tencubits high, but did not finiffi it, left Clau¬dius Gaidar fliould think he defigned to re-be ; yet the Jews afterwards built it twentycubits high, afid raifed a battlement two cu¬bits; and built three towers thereon: all theirtowers were built of white marble, eachftoae being twenty cubits long, ten broad;ana live thick, fo curiouily joined, that thevleemed but one ftpne, and the compafs ofthe city from the north to the weft, was for¬ty-three furlongs.Within the city was the King’s palace,furpaffing all in the world for largenefs andworkmanftnp, environed with a wall whichwas thirty cubits high, adorned with towersand beautified with houfes to an hundred ofthe nobility and in every room were many• vellels ofgold and filver, and porches adorn-ed with curious pillars, and many pleafantwalks, with all manner of trees and foun¬tains.yerufalcm's Captivities Lamented. S'tains, which fpouted out water, with cifternsand brazen itatues, from which water runcontinually.The temple was built upon a rocky moun-taid, and the place at the top, was not atfirft big enough for the temple and court,the hill being very fteep, but the people eve¬ry day brought earth thitherand they atiaft made it plain and large enough, withwonderful curiofity and labour, enclofed withthree walls, which were mahy days labour,with the coft of all the holy treafure offeredto God from all parts; the foundation cf thetemple was laid three hundre'd cubits deep ; xthe porches were double fupported by many^pillars twenty cubits high, all of one' pieceof marble ; the tops of cedar fo exactly•wrought, as aftoniftied beholders, the porch¬es were thirty cubits broad, and the compafsof the temple was fix furlongs : The courtswere curiouily paved and wrought with allforts of ftones . and the gates were coveredwith weighty plates of gold, only one withCorinthian brafs. which for beauty excelledthe others, dazzling the eyes of the fpefla-tors.Then the Sanctum Sanctorum, or Ho¬ly of Holies, fituated in the midfi:,, had twelveftairs to go up to it. the fore-part of it wasan hundred cudits high, and as many broad,and backwards it was forty cubits on eachfide. It had as it were two Ihoulders twenty- cubits6 yerufahm's Captivities Lamented.cubits high, and twenty-five wide, and hadno doors, to {hew that heaven was always^open. All the fore parts were gilded with¬in and covered with fine gold, the inner part'was divided into two rooms, w hereof the?firll only might be feen, which was in heightninety cubits m length,forty, and in breadth:twenty. Round about the wall was a gold-*cn vine, whereon hung grapes in clufters,, being fix feet long; it had golden gates fifty-five cubits high, and fixteen broad, and cu¬rious hangings of the fame length, wroughtwith purple, velvet, fcarlet, and filk. All:the fabric was fo exquifite and rich, thatnone could imagine any workmanfhip to bewanted, for it, was, all covered -with maffyplates of gold, which aflonifhed the behold¬ers ; the top alio w as fet with rods of gold,ihSrp at the ends, left birds fhould fit there¬on, and defile the holy place.Our SAVIOUR wras born in the yearor the world 4004, and in the 43d year ofAuguftus Gaefar; many remarkable thingswere feen in the heaveus, which caufed thewife men to conclude, that f ;me more thanan ordinary perfon would appear upon the'earth : The learned thought it to be Auguf- :tus Caefar, who then reigned'profperonflv ;but others thought it. to be he whom theprophet Ifaiah fpeaks of, that would havethe government on his {boulders, even theSaviour of the world, wdiom the Evangelifts• mention, i'J'tr>uJ'ahvi>s Captivities Lamented. 7mention, that the angels declared to theIhepherds, and the ftar diretted the wife menof the eaft to find out the place of his birthsSo thatAs the new'earth with a new far was biefl.So heaven wish a new glorious far was dref*At Chrift’s birth, the temple at Rome, de¬dicated to tfie god Pan, fell to the earth;and. when it was built, the Romans addrefs-ed the oracle of Apnolla, to know how longit fhould endure ; who anfwered, “ Till a“ Virgin fhould bring forth a Ion,” which.they judged impofTible, therefore they believ¬ed that their temple fhould laf! eternally.The night that Chnft was born, there ap¬peared m Spain at midnight, a cloud with fogreat a light, that, it feemed litce mid-day,St. Jerom writes, that when the virgin fledwith her fon into Egypt, all the images ofthe God’s tumbled from their alters to thevery ground : and that the Oracles, or An-fwers which thefe Gods, or rather Devils,,ufed to give them, ceafed, and never anfwer-■ ed afterwards..In the firfl year after CHRIST’S birth,1many ftrange things happened in Germa¬ny, and in Rome, and a terrible eclipfeof the fan. At tlie twelfth year of his agehe difputed with the doftors, and at thattune there appeared a terrible., carnet, Tothat8 Jcrufalem',s Captivities Lamented.that the fight of the fun apparently failed,the heavens feemed to burn, and fire beamsjell from them. In the twenty-fecond yearof his age, feveral bloody comets were feen,and the river Tiber overflowed1 the city ofRome. ^PUBLIUS LENTULLUS’ Epifde toRcme concerning CHRIST.“ There appeared in thofe days a man of“ great virtue called JESUS CHRIST,“ who is yet living among us, and by the“ people is called a prophet; but his own“ difciples call him the SON of GOD.“ he raifeth the dead, cureth all manner of“ difeafes -f a man of ftature, fomewhat tall“ and corriely, with a reverend countenance,H fuch as the beholders may both fear and“ love ; his hair is of the colour of a chef-<t nut full-ripe, and plain down almoft to“ his ears, but from thence downward fome-“ what curled, but more orient of colours“ waving about his fhoulders ; in midft of“ his head goeth a feam of "hair, or parting,“ like that of the Nazarites ; his forehead“ very plain and fmooth ; his face without“ fpot or wrinkle, beautified with a comely“ red ; his nofe and mouth fo formed, that“ nothing can be reprehended, his beard“ thick, in colour of the hair of his head ;“ his eyes grey, clear and quick; in reprov¬ingyerufalem's Captivities Lamented. 9^ “ mg he is fevere, in counfelling, courteous<l and fair fpoken ; pleafant in fpeech, mix-“ ed with gravity : it cannot be remembered“ that any have feen him laugh, but manv44 have feen him weep ; in proportion of bo-“ dy well ftiaped and ftraight; his ^nds and44 arms very deleftible to behold, in fpeaking44 very temperate, modeft apd wife ; a man.44 for his fingular beauty far exceeding the44 fons of men,■ Within the thirty-third year of Chrift’alife he was crucified by the wicked hands ofthe Jews, which caufed many mirhcles, at-tefled both by Heathens and Chriftias. Athis death there was a mighty darknefs in the' day time, from fix till nine, that is, from our0 twelve, to our three in the afternoon, andyet no eclipfe of the fun, it being full moon;fo it was contrary to the order of nature, but•the power of God deprived- the fun of hislight.Dionysus the Areopagite, being that dayin Athens, and feeing the darknefs, criedwith a loud voice, 44 either the world is at an“ end, or the God of nature fuffers.” Thenthe men of Athens, being aftonilhed, built analter to the UNKNOWN GOD ; and af¬terwards St. Paul declared to them, 4 That4 Chrift,’ who fuffered that day, ‘ was the4 Unknown God; whereby he converted ma- '•ny to the Chrillian faith,It•to Jerufakin's Captivities lamented.It is likewife acknowledged by Plutarch,tfiough a heathen, that after the death ofChrift, not only the oracles of Egypt ceafedbut through all the world, for which he cangive no reafon, being ignorant of Chriftian-ity; however Satan did 'plainly acknowledgehimfeif overcome by the death of Chrilt,and could never give, any aiifwers afterwards.The words of Plutarch to Emilius the oratorconcerning.the matter are as follows,“ My father coming by Tea towards Italy,■ “ and coafting by night about an ifland not“ inhabited called Paraxis: -when molt in“ the fhip were at reft, they heard a fearful“ voicewhich came from that iftand, thatI “ called upon Alaman, who was pilot of the“ fhip, and ah Egytian born ; though this“ Voice was heard once or twice, yet no manhad the courage to anfwer it till the third“ time when the pilot anfwered, Who is“ there ? Who is it that calls ? What would! “you have? Then the voice fpake more“ high, and faid, Alivnan, I require, that*' when you pafs the gutpb of Languna, you“ remember to cry aloud, and make them to“ underf and that ibe great god 'Fan it dead,“ at thefe words all in the fhip were aftc-“ nifhed, and concluded that the pilot fhouldnot take notice cf the voice,, nor ftay inthe gulph to utter inch words ii they could• ‘ ' “ g-etJerufalem's Captivities lamented. ne< get beyond it. Now going on their voy-“ age, and coming to the place before men-“ tioned, the fhip flood ftill, and the fea was<c calm, that they conld go no further;“ whereupon, they refolved, that Alamanfhould perform his embaffage, fo he p!a-“ ced himfelf upon the poop of the Ihip and“ cried aloud. Be it known unto yoiiy that“ great god Pan is dead. When he Irad“ uttered thefe words, they heard many“ mournful cries, groans and lamentations,'4 that continued tome time, which furpril.ed“ thofe in the fhip : but having a profper-“ ous gale, they followed their coixrfe, arriv-“ ed at Rome and told the adventure ; and“ Tiberius the Emperor, all the truth“ thereof.It is. evident that Satan in all parts wasbanifhed by the. death of Chrift, and it isluppofed that this god Pan is not to be un-derflood only as the god of the fheplierds,but was ratlier fome mafter devil, who loflhis power and empire, as they all did at thedeath of Jefus Chrifl.About forty years after the death of JefusChrift, the 'Jews had many warnings (hewnthem from heaven. Before Vefpafian camein the feaft of weeks, the prieft heard a manwalking in the temple, faying, with a terriblevoice, “ Come, let us go away out of this“ place, let us make away from hence.”Now.J2 Jerufalem's Captivities Lamented.Now the figns of the Jews being come t®the full height, who with cruel hands hadcrucified the LORD or P^E, that inno¬cent blood Which they defied might fall onthem and their children, began now to beavenged upon them .; for the civil wars werebegun by Jehohanan and Simon, who de-ftro- ed all the corn and fruits without thecity and Jehohanan within the citythe citizens’ wives and daughters,floods of innocent blood. T he citizens, beingweary of this tyranny, delivered the city toSimon thinking he would help them, but heJoined the other rebel, and they reignedmonth about till at laft they quarrelled be-tween themfelves. . _ , iThen there was nothing but flaughtebloodlhed, fo that the blood of the Jews ranthrough the flreets, even to the te^Pl? fthe LORD, like a flood i All that the fedi-tious overcame they fet their honfes^n fire,fo that they burnt fourteen hundred ftore*houfes, that were full of corn, wine, and oil,which caufed a hidden famine m JerufalemThus GOD vifited the city with fourplagues at once, viz. fword peftilence, famineand fire : to which the fifth was added theruin anddeftruaion of all the glorious budd¬ings fo that nothing but defolation, pollutionof the Temple, and all holy things, and up¬roar without any reft ; no help. *o fuccour,but every corner was full of how i g,Jerufalevi's Captivities Lamented. 13Ting, weeping, wailing, fobbing, and fighingof women, children, and aged men, ftarvingibr want of bread, and 'Others roaring intheir wounds; fo that all manner of miferiesopprefled the inhabitants and he was thoughta happy man who was dead before that day.At this time Vefpafian with his armywas lying in Galilee, and from thence hewent to Rome to receive the Imperial Crown,and left his fon Titus, with the half of hisarmy-to befiege Jerufalem, the other to tar¬ry at Alexandria till further orders “ That I“ lhall do (faid Titus) dear father, for unto“ you it belongeth to command, and for me“ to obey,”In the firft year of the reign of Vefpafian,Titus muftered his army, and found themfufficient for the fiege of Jcrufalem. He thenmarched to Samaria, and from thence to Ate-Ionia, thirty furlongs from Jerufalem, wherehe pitched his camp, and the next day hebrought his whole army to Jerufalem a lit¬tle before the feaft of unleavened bread,which was April the 14th, fo that an infinitenumber of people, who came to celebrate,were all fhut up in the city, which raifed afamine; oxen’s dung was fold at a dearrate, fo was old leather ; and fome women,for want, boiled their children and did eatthem.Mow Titus approached the walls of thecity,14 Jerufalem's Captivities Lamented.city, and pitched his camp upon the riverPoleponina, railed a mount, and with a bat¬tering ram broke into the city. May 7th,and afterwards he raifed four other mounts,and made himfelf mailer of the fecond wall,and built twelve callles thereon, fo that nonecould pafs in or out, whereby the famineand pellilence raged within, and the fwordwithout the city, fo that multitudes perifh-ed; for, from April the 14th, to July fol¬lowing, there were buried, by the commoncharge of the city, fix hundred thoufandcarcafes, and multitudes thrown into emptyhoufes, and over the walls, which filled thehoufes with dead bodies.Titus intended to fave the temple fromfire, when fome of the city was in flames,by fetting a guard on it, but the feditiouswho raifed the lire, flew every man of theguard which Titus hearing, brought hiswhole army thither. At that time a foidier‘of the feditious took a flaming fire-brand,and call it through the golden window intothe Temple, and others fet fire to the doors,and after the gold grew hot, the Temple ,began to burn, and immediately the wholefabric was in a flame, and the HOLY ofHOLIES was laid open to the view of alltheS’e prelent.This happened in the fecond year of thereign of Vefpaiian, and the fame month thatit was burnt by Nebuchadnezzar. TitusdrewJerufaleni’s Captivities Lamented. 15<ire\v his fword to fave the holy place, butthe flames ruflied through all parts of theTemple in a moment, fo that none couldfave it. The Jews feeing all go to deftrhc-tion before their eyes, then they threw them-felves into the flames faying, “Why fliould“ we live any longer? Now there was no“ Temple.” After the Holy of Holies wasburnt, Titus entered it, and faw tile glory of• it and faid, “ I well perceive that this is no•“ other than the houfe of GOD, and thedwelling.place of the KING of Heaven ;“ The God of heaven Who is God of this“ houfe, take vengeance on the feditious,“ whofe heinous^deeds have brought this e-“ vil upon themfelves and this holy place.'’*On the 7th of September, Titus com¬manded all tire lower city to be fet on fire,• and a {faulted the upper city, breaking overtheir fences, and deftroying all before himwith fire anti fword-; then he commanded thecity and temple to be razed to the founda-tipn, and the ground to. be forthwith plow¬ed. And Jehohanan nnd Simon were ferttprifoners to Rome, with Teven* hundred ofthe Jews-: The book of the law, and thepurple veil of the San&uary were taken intriumph to Rome. About that time neitherfun nor moon appeared for fifteen days asChrift foretold, Mattb. xxiv. 15.St, Jerom writes, that in his tune, on thathay of the year wherein Jerufalem was takenby*6 Jerusalem's Capthites Lamented.by the Romans, you might have feen acredmen and women, and feveral other wretch¬ed people, who, with blubbered cheeks anddiihevelled hair, went howling and lament¬ing for the ruin of the Temple and Sanftu-ary, wearing and bearing in their habits andbodies, the fad chara&er of divine venge-ance °f whom the foldiers exadted a feetor liberty of weeping; and they who for¬merly fold the blood of Jefus, were now for¬ced to buy their own tears, without beino-pitied. °The Roman foldiers, being now quite fpentwith doing execution, and having a greatdeal more of their work yet to do, Titus or¬dered his men to hold their hands fayingonly to thofe whom they found armed, or ina pofture of refiftance, and to give quartersto all the reft. But the foldiers went bevondtheir commiffions, and put the aged and fick-iy to the fword, promifcuoufly, with theircompanions 5 and for thofe that were ftrono-and ferviceable, they fhut them up in thetemple, in the women’s quarter. Caefar ap¬pointed Fronto, one of Iris friends and free¬men to inform him of the people, and todo by them as they deferved. As for theruffians, and the feditious, that impeachedone another, he had them all put to death ;but for men of comely and graceful perfons,j}n the Prime of-their yonth, he referv-cd them for the triumph ; fending away allaboveJcrufaiem's Captivities Lamented. 17above feventeen years of age of the remain¬der of them in chains into Egjpt, to beemployed in fervile offices and drudgery ;befides thofe that were diftributed up anddown the provinces for the ufe of the theatresin the quality of fwords-men or gladiators ;and all under feventeen he expofed to fale.In the mean time, while the prifonefswere under Fronto’s charge, there were e-leven thoufand of them ftarved 'to death, be¬twixt the churlifhnefs of the keepers, thatwould give them no meat; and the fqueam-ifhnefs of their ftomachs that would fwallownone. But in truth the mouths were toomany for the proviiions-The numbers of prifoners in this war wasninety feven thoufand. The number of thedead was eleven hundred thoufand; thegreater part of them Jews by nation, thoughnot natives of Judea ; For it was only a ge¬neral meeting of them at Jerufnlem, gather¬ed together fiom all quarters , to celebrate-the feaft of the pa Hover ; who were thenfurprifed into a war. There was fuch a pro¬digious multitude, and they fo ftraitened forlodgings, that the croud firll brought theplague into the town, and then quickly madeway foy. a famine. The city not being capa-ble-of entertaining that vaft body of people,if the calculation of Ceftius may at lealt palsfor any thing : As follows.Kero18 Jerufaltin's Captivities Lamented..Nero had fo great a contempt for the( Jews, that Ceftius made it his fuit to the high,priefts to bethink themi'elves of fome way ofnumbering their people; and this he didout of a defire to give Nero to underflandthat the Jewiih nation was not fo defpicableas he imagined ;', lo that they took their time,to ejiter upon the computatiort, at the cele-bratiorr of their pafchal feaft j When offer¬ing up facrihce to be eaten afterwards, inthe ninth hour-of the day to t1i£ eleventh ,and the facrifice to be eaten afterwards, intheir families, by ten at leaf!:,''and fometimestwenty to a lamb ; they reckoned upon twohundred and ILxty-fix thoufand, five hun¬dred oblations ; which at the rate of ten to alamb, amounted to two milions. fix hundredand fixty-five thoufand perfons, all pure andfound. For neither lepers, fcorbutics, mentroubled with gonnorhoeas,- women in theirmonthly ficknefs, or people labouring underany malignant difiempera were admitted toany part, in this folemnity : No more wereany Grangers, but what came thither for re¬ligion. So that this n " (htv concourfe ofpeople from abroad before the fiege, wasafterwards by the righteous Providence oFGodl cooped ill's in that city, as in. a prifon t.And1 the number of the flaiu in that fiege,was the heavielt judgment of that kind thatever was heard of. Some were killed open¬ly, others kept in c.uftody by the. Romans,• * whmyerufaleni's Captivities Lamented. 19who fearched the very fepulchres and vaultsfor them, and put all they found alive to the-fword. There were upwards of two thou¬sand that had either laid violent hands onthemfelves, or killed one anoth by confent;befides thofe that periihed by the famine.The putrid corruption of dead bodies Sentout a vapour to poifon as many as camewithin the reach of it. Some were not ableto endure it, and fo went out of the way ;others had their hearts fo fet upon booty,that they rifled the very carcafes, and tram¬pled upon the dead bodies as they lay foak-ing in their corruption : but avarice Hicks atnothing. They brought out fevefal prifonersalfo that the two tyrants had laid in chainsthere ; for they kept up their cruelty to thelaft: but God’s juftice overtook them bothin the end; for John and his brethren inthe vaults were now driven by the diftrefsof an unfupportable hunger, to beg thatmercy of the Romans, which they had fooften defphed : And Simon, after a longStruggle with, an infupportable neceflity, de¬livered up himfelf. .The latter being referv-ed for the triumph, and the foAner made pri¬soner for life. The Romans after this burntthe remainder of the city, and'threw downthe walls.The power of God on the one hand', andhis goodnefs on the other, was very remarkable on “this occafion for the tyrantsruined.20 Jerufalenfs Captivities Lamented.ruined themfelves, by quitting thofe holdsof their own accord, that ceuld never havebeen taken but by famine ; and this afterthe Jews had fpent fo much time to no pur-pofe upon other places of lefs value. Bythefe means, the Romans became matters ofthree impregnable forts by fortune,that couldnever have been taken any other way : Forthe three famous towers before mentionedwere proof agaimt all battery.Upon Simon and John’s quitting thefetowers ; or rather, upon their being drivenout of them, by the impulfe of judicial infa¬tuation, they haftened away to the vale ofSiloa, where they took breath a while, andafter fome recolle&ion, and refrefhment, theygave an aflault to the new wall there : Butfo faint and weak, that the guard beat themoft'; for between fatigue, defponpency, dread,and mifery, their ftrength failed them, andthey were then fcattered feveral ways infinks and gutters.The foldiers were now broken loofe allover the town, up and down in the. Ifreets,with their fwords drawn ; killing all that fellin their way w'thout diftin£ti#n ; and burn¬ing intire houfes, and whatever was in them,in one common flame. In feveral placeswhere they entered to fearch for pillage, theyfound whole families dead, and houfes cram¬med with hunger-fyafved carcafes : So thatupon the horror of fo hidious a fpectacle,- * Jerufalem's Captivities Lamented.they came out agaia empty-handed : but tliecompaffion they had for the dead, made themnot one jot tenderer to the living ;* for they{tabbed every man they met, till the narrowpaJages and alleys were choaked up withcarcafes; fo that the channels of the city ranblood as if it had been to quench the” fire.In the evening they gave over killing, and atnight they fell afrelh to burning.The eighth of the month Gorpieus putan end to the confiagration of Jerufalem,(A. D. 70.) and if all the bleffings it everenjoyed, from the foundation of it, had beenbutfcomparable in proportion to the calami¬ties it fuffered in this fiege, that -city hadbeen undoubtedly the envy of the worldBut the greateft plague of all came out ofits mvn bowels ; in that infernal race of vi¬pers that it brought forth to eat out the belly' oi the mother. JWhile Titus uras now taking a view of theruins of this glorious city : the works, thefortifications, and efpecially the turrets,whichthe tyrants had fo fottiflily abandoned: WhileCaefar, I fay, was entertaining himfelf in thecontemplations of the height, diraenfions, andntuations of thefe towers ; the defign. work-manfhip, and Curiofity of the fabric, withthe wonderful contrivance of the whole : Helet fall this expreflion, “ Well, fays be, If‘‘God had not fought for us, and with'us,“ we could Kever have been jnafters of thefeforts22 Jerufalem's Captivities Lamented,“ forts. It was God fn fine, that aflifted us“ and that fought againfl the Jews ; for this•u was not an undertaking to be compared“ with hands or machines.”This was in iine the iiTue of the fiege :And .when the foldiers had neither rapine norblood-fhed for their fpleen to work upon (asthey would not have been idle, if they hadhad matter) Titus ordered them to lay thecity and temple level with the ground ; andto leave nothing handing, but the three fa¬mous turrets, Pafael, Hippicos, and Mariam-ne, that overtopped all the reft ; and a pieceof wall to the weftward of the town, wherehe defigned a garrifon. The towers to re¬main as fo many monuments to pofterity, ofthe Romans’ power and conduct in takingthem. This order was pu&ually executedand all the reft laid fo flat, that the placelooked as if it had never been inhabited.This wag the end of the Jerufalem faction ;a mad and feditious people: and alfo the endof the moft glorious city in the univerfe.What is here chiefly remarkable is this Jthat no foreign nation ever came thus to de-ftroy the Jews at any of their folemn fefti-vals. from the days of Mofes.till this time ;but came now upon their apoftacy fromGod, and difobedience to him. Nor is itpoffible, in the nature of things, that in anyether nation fuch vaft numbers Ihould begotten together, and perifh in the fiege ofJerufaleni's Captivities Lamented. 23any one city vhatfoever,' as now happenedin Jerufalem.Thus was Jerufalem taken and utterly-deftroyed, in the iecond year of Vefpafian,and on the eight day of the month Gorpi-eus ; having been five times taken before,L e. by Azchaeus king of Egypt: AntiochusEpiphanes, king.of Syria ; Pompey and He¬rod, with Sofius ; who/ did all prcferve thecity after it was taken. But Nebuchadnez-zor the king of Babylon, laid it wafte oneUhoUfand three hundred' and fixty years,eight months, and fix days, after the bniid-ing of it. ■ ,The firft founder of.it was a Canaanitifhprince called Melchizeelec, which in the He¬brew language fignifies a juft king;-for fuchwas he in an eminent manner, tie firft de¬dicated the city to God ; erected a templein it, and officiated in the quality of prieft,giving it the name of Jerufalem, Which be¬fore was called Solyma,When David, the king of the Jews, cameafterwards to drive out the Canaanites, heplanted his own people there and in fourhundred and Feventy-feven years, and threemonths after this, it was laid wafte by theBaylonians.From the reign of David there, to the de-ftru&ion of the city by Titus, it was onethoufandone hundred andfeventy-nine years;and two thoufand one hundred and feventy-nine24 'Jerufalem's Captk-ltiet Lamented.nine from the foundation of it. But neitherthe antiquity, wealth, fame, nor the honourof the religion itfelf, was any fecuritv againftthc appointments of Fate : and thofe who af¬terwards faw it, could not believe that everthere had been fuch a city there; yet the de-fpifed Jews begged leave to build part of thecity, but after fixty-five years, when theybegan to revolt, then Elius Adrianus theEmperor, flew many thoufaftds of them ;and when his fury was over, he took one partof the city within the wall, Mount Cqjvary; and Ghrill’s fepulchre, and made a Ipaciouscity which he called after his own name, Se-j ^ Gapitolia, which was inhabited by all na-i tions, but moft by Chriftians for five hundredi years; and in fix hundred and thirty-nine, itwas taken by the Egyptians and SaracensS’ who held it four hundred years; and In onethoufand and thirty nine it was regained bvGodfrey Bollogn, who, being efeaed king, .refufed to be crowned with a crown of gold,,where CHRIST was crowned with a ‘crownof thorns : It continued to him and his fuc-cefsors eighty-eight years, till in one thou¬fand one hundred and twenty-feven, it wastaken by Saladine king of Egypt; and in onethoufand five hundred and feventeen, theTurks took it (who are ftill mailers of it) andcalled it, in their own language, Gimembare,or the Holy of Holies.E ! N I S.