T H E1 TV, t7i \ f v V/C Ljrcii 1«. yO R,RAGGED andMow;TRUE,TO WHICH 4 ire AD OSD,\ A L L I -N THE TASTE.I SINGE He’s Gone, FAREWEL HE..; CLEAN PATERNAL SEAT.WAP YOUR WEALTH TOGETHER.I-—t —_    G L A S G O W,Trintcd by J. & M, Robert fun, <3!{market , j So ?.THE SWEET B A. R L E Y * M O W;' OR,-RAGGED and TRUE.fWill fing you a fong of myi’elf,and fo give the Devil his tins,1 ne’er fhail be hanged for wealth.and as for my clothes they’rfc but few.My clothes a-re all gone without-doubt,to the joys of the fweet Barley-Tuow,My pence they’re worn down to nothing,brave boys, tho’ I’m ragged I’m true.My clothes are all fcratches and patches,you may fee if you earnrjiiy lookMy clothes ^re all Scratches and patches,much like to a fajfe written book:But fcratched and patched, -Eli wear it,until l can paint it with new,'For drinking i’ll challenge the nation,braye boys, tho* I’m ragged, I’m true.Come fill us a pot of good liquor,we’ll drink to our creditors all;We’ll pay them when times they grow better, 1and landlords come at the firft call }And if they will rake no denial,but run like a hare in full view,I-will give them the (tart upon trial,brave boys, lho’ I’m ragged, I’m true.sTJong time this naii has been driven,unto the bcttomlefs land,I'm afraid there is fofnething been doing,that will turn to fome fatal end.IBut rubbers artd ulows l will give them,wil; caufe all our joys to reint%vTiAs wc found the .world fo we muft leave it,brave boys, tho* we’re ragged, we’re true.A L L. IN THE T AS T E.^7" E beaux and ye belies of the city,that drive for .to ogle the taftc,(Give ear to a comical ditty,in which Lady Fafaior, is plac'd.tiFor I'll fliow you fome raRe aiatnode,fo well Turn'd in a kelure on heads,r And ftep ioto Steven’s road,in fpite of all criticN dreads.; FirR, Obferve the good Lady of FaGiion,pray mark but her porcupine head,HYith her brains Ihe can fettle a nation,while the poor is iUrfing for bread.i Dbferve but her Turkey cock’d hat,pray fee bow it dwells on her nofe,•hVinch makes her as blind as a bat,and behind all for nothing fbe (hows.•.vitfs Polly jufl corue from the fchool,in the iaihiorr mutt cut a great figure,*’f 4' >For no more (hr^i'l be reekoa’d a foo’’ w’nen Iier head^s made lomeihing bigger.And,nay-making John play'd Jus. port,tor he fo well luted her fliape;Oo Ibe’s irdrly rellgn'd him her heart,raid borrow'd the form of an-a pc.*Next a mrm of Derry comes in,for be, nrs a man of the tor, n.With Eaffle-court mark'd oft his chin,and Durf-fjelds all dulinefs he'll crown.With a wig of the buii forehead kind,on which Stcv’fiS once made a comment, |And cp< n'd the eyes of the blind,and fold wit at twenty per cent.Pray ogb the tub bottom’d hat,fee the virtues of Weaiherby there ;For i)>e lamp-breaking magic's in that,you may fee it quite plain l declare.But leave off my good luRy Robin,- , tor with t ide you’re always intriguing^Or by chance you a\ay get a good mobbing, ,by the help of young Mailer O'dggan. |Since Hk’s^Gone, Faritwel Hz., '**-LATELY w ith a young man,I fell deeply in'love, *ijhe werff of ail young men,he did unto’ me prove;.(15 ) ’ >For hi? forgive' h ran {'o niuihly,and fo nimbly ran't for rne.I'm afraid he wiil-diffiuV-ie,fines he’s gone, farswel hf.With his fort flattering tongue,and his fooldh advice.He thinking for to lead meinto Cupid's Paradife ;And there vtouid a flighted me,as he’s done tivo or three j.So • or ever i’Jl defy him,fines he’s gone, faieivel he.My love gave unto me,a very.fioe gold ring,Thinking for io deprive me,of a far better thing :E.’t t happ’ned to be wifer>than he took me for to be ;So for ever t’ii defy hinj,fmee he's gone, farc-wcl he.He being the onfy fan of awealthy o!d geatteman,And l but the daughter of apoor oM frail wo naan ;’Since he’s got the gold about him,he may keep it a* for me;For i’ii make a fliift witho'tu him, >frcce he’s gone, farewel he.Since he’s gone, let him go.kt him fink, let him fv/im ;Vf 5 >For I br.ve got anot-hr r f<veot.l*eart,tv;ice as good as him ;I may work. I may fit idle,as convenient for'isie;I may red: me when ‘dm wearied,ftjKe he's gone, farewei he.Now fmee that he is married,and kecpa.bimfdf fo clefs.Let it never be laid, that Iwill lament lor. the h,fs;Since he is plcafsd with her carriage.and fo w'dl with her agree.I’ll never hop the marriage,fince he’s gone, fivewel he.O welcome frelh weather,and farewel froft, >, ■ fFor dancing and* rejoicingknee my true lover’s lofitFor it has never been determined,that married we fcould be jSo for ever Til defy him,fince he’s gone, farewcl he.C LE AN P 4 PEE NT .11. SE t\ r.TO hug ypurf-If in perfrcl e?fe,What v, ouidyo nvilhfor more than thefe?A healthy, devs paternal feat,Vvreli ihaded fry in thcffu.umer heat;• A light parionr, a Hove to holdA conlhint fire, from winter’s cold.Where you u?y fit> nn J think, and (ing-, •Far off fro'm court, God Biefs the King.Safe from the harpies of the law.From party-rage, and great men’s paw;I Have a few choice friends of your own caff;A wile agreeable arid chafte;An open, but "yet a conftent mifni,r Where guilty cares no entrance find;|'Nor nvfer’s ferns, nor envy’s fpijshr,! To break the fahbath of the night.Plain equipage, and temperate meals,;i Few taylors, and t;o dolor’s bills ;I Content to take as Heaven fhall pleafe,| A larger or a fhortcr ieafe. -WAP YOUR WEALTH TOGEVHER.Mither dear, 1 ’gin to fear/tho’ Pm baith good and bonfiy,I w’inna keep; for ip my ilr:ep,I fla^f s.ud dream o’ Jolntny,C II O R V S.Up flairs down ftairs,, timber flairs fear me,I'm lakh to ly a' night my larc,and johnty’s bed las hear me.When johnny the a c.o tries down the glen,to vreo me do net hinder $( S ,) 1 ^But wiHt -content gt5 your ronfcAt.for vrc twn ne’er can frmfer. Up. kc»Better *o rinrry* thia mifearry;for fhanU and fkaith’s' the tUnk o’r.To tiiole the dole, to nip1 nl\ tne ft col, ,I downa bile to thtuk o’t. Up, &c.S.u' while Vis’time rH'fhurt the crime,that gars poor J'ippt gsv vchinging. ,With hallnches*row, and eon i.te olew,t'o a the btdrals binging Up; &C»Hard F.ppU.y apron bidden down,the kirk wtd ne’er a kend it ;I^ut when the word’s gans the town jalrke how can the mend it! Up, &c.Now* Taro matitt face the -minifter,and hie maun* mount the pillar’And ih»t's the v;gy that they maun gae,for poor folk, has uae •filler. Up, &c. |N»-v? haM yom tongue, try daughter } oang,reply’d die kindly niither,Get Johnny’s hand in haty hand,fyne Wap your wealth together. Up, 5iC.Bm o’ the mind, if he be kind,ye’ll do yQur part difereedy ;And’prove a wife, will gar his life,and barrel run right fweedy. Up, &c.-  —Q U A S G O W,PihUrd by J. & M. Rfelxrtfopj Sa't^srkct, iSoi-