THE ECONOMICAL| gp-1*rfiCOMPLETE HOUSEKEEPERSHE EOOKETH WELL TO THE WAYS OP HEK HOUSK1IOLO, ANDEAIETH NOT THE BREAD OP IDLENESS.”VGLASGOW:1 PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.No.123456789101112131413It!17181920id.id.0 10id.0 40 H0 2i0 30 340 4J0 5i0 60 640 7i0 8i0 90 940 1010 Hi1 01 041 H1 211 3Id.a. n.0 10 60 70 80 90 100 111 01 11 22d.8. D.0 20 40 c0 80 101 01 21 41 61 81 102 103 03 23 43d.a. d.0 30 60 91 62 62 94<7.s. D.0 40 81 02 02 45 06 06 46 85(7.S. D.0 50 101 31 82 12 C2 113 43 94 24 75 05 55 106 36 87 17 67 118 46(7.S. 1)0 61 01 62 06060605 60 06 67 07 68 08 69 09 010 07(7.S. D0 71 21 92 42 113 64 14 85 35 106 57 07 78 2• 8 99 49 1110 611 111 88(7.s.012234456678891010111212139(7.10(7.8. D.0 101 82 G3 44 25 05 106 810 010 1011 812 613 414 215 015 1016 811(7.8. D.0 111 109876543210 111 011 1112 1013 914 815 716 617 518 4Example.—To find the value of id lb. at Hid.10 under the head of Jd. is . . . . 0 0 7J10 'inder the head of 11(7. is . . . . .0921*.s. D1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 010 011 012 013 014 015 016 017 018 019 020 0£ 0 3 91THE ECONOMICALANDOMPLETE HOUSEKEEPER.riTHOUT taking up either time or room in sayingword about the merits of this little work, theSditor leaves the contents to show its value.1 To the wife of the man in humble life is especi-llly confided the superintendence of the domesticrffairs, and on her tasteful, as well as prudent, waymanaging them depends the comfort of everyember of the family. By a faithful and satisfac-ry discharge of her duties, she will not only main-in the husband’s respect and attachment, butcure many advantages to her children. Theyoung gudewife” may find our information and’vice very suitable for assisting her to that ex-rience and economy so necessary in her severalties.The general marketing for the house is amonge foremost of these duties ; such as the choice and-rchase of meat, fish, vegetables, groceries, and“ious stores for domestic uses ; the curing of meat,e preserving of fruit, and so on.CHOICE OF MEAT.Beef is never out of season, but yet is best inovember, December, and January. The fat shouldwhite and pure ; the lean smooth and glossy, anda bright red colour. When the fat is of a deepHow colour, the beef is not so likely to be good.4lu old meat, a streak of horn runs between the ftand lean of the sirloin and ribs ; the harder thisthe older, and the flesh is not well flavoured. 1the beef be to young, the fat will be like muttcfat, and the lean of a pale colour.Veal -should be judged by the kidney, whicfought to be well covered with white thick frThe finest calves have the smallest kidneys. Whthe fat around the kidney is soft and greenish itgetting tainted. The other parts should be dand white, without any disagreeable smell; nclammy nor spotted.Mutton is best about five years old, and not goiunder three. Choose it by the lean being figrained and of good colour, and by the fat whijand firm. Ewe is paler, but not so well flavour*as wether mutton. Ram mutton is strong flavoed, high-coloured, and the fat spongy. Black-facis sweetest and always preferred.Lamb.—It is best when the quarters are she |and thick, and the neck fat. The eyes shouldfull and bright. If there be a faint smell abo •the kidney, it is growing stale. The season f|grass lamb is from April to August.Of Pork, when fine, the rind is thin ; if you:and well-fed, the lean breaks on being pinched, a:the fat is white. The lean is also smooth and di;Of old pork the rind is thick and tough. Sm;greasy lumps and kernels mixed with the fat issign of measly pork.Of good Bacon the rind is likewise thin, thefirm and white, the lean of a bright red and adln (.ing close to the bone. It is rusty, if there be aappearance of yellow in the fat.The best way of choosing Hams is by sticking inarrow blunt knife close by the bone. The hairErime if it come out with a pleasant smell, hut, iftherwise, it should he rejected. Short houghedmd thick hams are the best.The quality of butcher’s meat depends on theeason of the year, and more or less on the kindmd quantity of feeding. During the winternonths the flesh of most full grown beasts is in best: season, after having had abundance of fresh sum¬mer food. Pork is bad, except during winter.The flavour of all meats improves by being hungip, which also makes them easier of digestion.Meat eats better by hanging a day or two beforedt is salted.Charcoal laid upon meat prevents putrefaction,id restores what is already tainted.Dried meat, hams, and so on, require to be keptin a cold, but not damp place.CURING MEAT.Meat intended for salting in winter should hanga few days to make it tender. It is first wiped dry,the kernels and pipes then taken out, and the holesafterwards filled with salt. Meat salted in summerdoes not keep.At first, the salt must be rubbed in thoroughlyand evenly, two days after the meat must be turn¬ed and rubbed again, and, the oftener it is turnedand rubbed, the better will the meat keep.Bay salt is better than any other salt. By some,sugar is used to rub meat previous to salting. Salt¬petre dries up the meat too fast; so that it is seldomused but for giving a red colour. For this purposeI take half an ounce of saltpetre, and the same quan¬tity of sugar, to every pound of salt. The meatmust be kept covered with the brine.RECIPE FOR A PICKLE. ' IITake 2 gallons of good water, in which dissolvfM2 lb. of sugar, (molasses will answer,) 1 oz. of salt-fjpetre, and 3 lbs of bay or comman salt. Put thewhole into a clean pot, let it boil, and be carefulito take off all the scum as it rises. When no morescum comes up, put the liquor aside to get quitecold. Having put the meat into the vessel whereit is to be preserved, pour the liquor over the meat!till wholly covered. In this state it must be keptIf you intend to preserve the meat for some lengthof time, it will be necessary to boil the pickle overagain once in two months, throwing in during .theboiling 2 oz. of sugar and -L ib. of salt, and remov¬ing all the scum as before. Thus the same picklewill last good for twelve months.This pickle is excellent for curing corned or hung:beef, hams, tongues. When the meat is taken outof the pickle, it should be cleaned and wiped,covered with paper, and hung up in a very dryplace.If you want to make the meat salter, use greaterquantities of the stuffs than as directed above. Be¬fore putting the meat into the pickle, in hot weatherrub it well over with salt, and let it lie about threehours until all the blood run out. If the meat bein the least tainted before it is put into the picklein hot weather, it will be spoiled in two days time.Corned beef requires to lie in pickle only abouta fortnight. Sugar is seldom used in making corn¬ed beef.HAMS.To each ham allow J lb. of bay and # lb. ofcommon salt, 2 oz. of saltpetre, 8 oz. of sugar, 4oz.of allspice. Rub in the half of the salt and salt-Ipetre, iu two days after the rest of the salt, saltpetreand the spices. Rub for half an hour, and thelonger the better. Lay the hams in the vessel,keep them carefully covered, turn and baste themwith the brine every day for some time.A beef ham must be tied up with packthread ;the knuckles of a mutton one filled with salt. Theformer takes six weeks to cure; the latter three.Hams are spiced by using aromatic and sweetherbs.TONGUES.Cut off the roots, soak them with a weak picklefor a day or two, and afterwards salt them withcommon salt. Scrape and dry the tongues, rubthem with salt and saltpetre, and the next day rubagain with sugar and salt. Keep them within thepickle for a fortnight.CHOICE OF POULTRY.Black-legged fowls are the most juicy and bestfor roasting. Pullets are in prime before they be¬gin to lay ; hen fowls are best when full of eggs.Their freshness is denoted when plucked, by therump being close and dark. Old hens have roughcombs, skin, and legs. The spurs of a young cockare short, and comb bright red. Capons should bechosen by the fat at the shoulders, large rump, andpale comb.Ducks should be chosen by the same rules. Youngducks are improved in flavour by being scalded.CHOICE OF FISH.Cod are best in January and February, andpoorest in June and July. When fresh the gills8are red, and eyes full and bright. Small rock codare to be had at any season. The roe of large codsalted for anight makes a pleasant and very cheapdish. Half boil, then slice, and fry. Eaten withbeat butter, which is made of flour, milk, and but¬ter, which must be constantly stirred till boilingtakes place.Haddocks are finest from October to April. Theshortest fish are the best.Herrings come into season in June at which timethey are very dear. They get cheap in August.The truest signs of good herrings ; eyes very bright,thick stiff green back, and plenty of shining scales.Whittings come in before herrings, and are cheap¬est from January to April. They should be stiff,with bright eyes.Flounders, when good, have the same marks.The scarlet-spotted are coarse, and inferior to thegrey-back.Salmon comes in the spring, and is cheapest, aswell as finest, in June and July. The gills should beof a fresh red, and quite free from smell, and theflesh firm.CURING FISH.Rizard Haddocks.—After opening the fish, re¬move the entrails, rub the inside with salt, andhang up to dry in an airy place.Rizard Herrings are made in the same way,F'.nnon Haddocks are now imitated by splittingthe fish, salting for a few hours, wetting them withpyroligneous acid, and hanging them up to dry.Herrings may be done in the same way, butgiving them more salt.Kipper Salmon.-—All the blood is taken from thefish immediately, which is done by cutting the gills.9. is slit up the back and the bone taken out, as well5 the entrails, and the head cut off. The skin ofic belly is left uncut. Lay the fish with the skinndermost on a board, and rub it and cover it overith a mixture of equal quantities of salt and allspice,’ut a weight upon it, repeat the rubbing with theime mixture, after two days, and hang it up by thenl to dry by the sun or fire.In this way, by buying a bit of salmon or grilseheap, you may have a cheap kipper, while kippern the shops is always very dear.VEGETABLES.r We subjoin a table of the seasons of vegetables :;Tale, or Greens, -O abbage, ...:iC abb age or Kale Plants,parrots,iTurnips, ...iipease, green,JPease, dried,teeans, ...SLeeks, ...~nions, ...Lettuces, - , -Parsley, ...Parsnips, - - -Cresses, ...November to June.June to January.All the year.May to April.May to April.June to August.All the year.July to November.March to June.July, and all the year.June to October.All the year.November to May.March to August.Vegetables are cheapest two months after comingin. Juicy vegetables are best preserved in a cool,dark place. Strong-scented vegetables ought to bekept apart. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, and similar■roots, should never be cleaned, from the earth ad¬hering to them, till they are dressed. Keep themfrom the air, and frost, by burying them in heaps insand or earth, or by covering them with straw orr mats.10Onions are best preserved strung, or if small irnets in a dry place. The thick-necked spongyones must be used first, or the germ taken out and#the onions then hung up to dry.A great saving is effected by purchasing rootand onions by the stone. People pay extravagantlydear for these things in small quantities.COOKERY.Cleanliness, and fresh wholesome meat and vege¬tables, are the most important points. Every timeyou use a saucepan, see that it has been well scouredand cleaned.In boiling, though a simple process, much fuelis sometimes wasted. Slow boiling is the greatsecret. Fast boiling makes the meat hard, and notso sweet. The boiling should be reckoned fromthe time the pot first comes a-boil. The usual timeis eighteen to twenty minutes for every pound offresh meat. Salted meat requires more water andboiling. If fish or meat be very salt, soak thembefore putting into the pot.The meat should be put into cold water, andslowly heated.Skimming the pot is another important point, foron this depend the good appearance and sweetnessof boiled meats. A little cold water and salt willaid in throwing up the scum.Fresh fish should be put into boiling water. Fishof two pounds require from eight to ten minutes.Dried fish, after being soaked in cold water forhours, should be put on a slow fire in cold water,and removed after little boiling.For roasting, the fire should be brisk, glowing,311and clean at bottom. Roast slowly. A pound fit'meat requires a quarter of an hour for roasting.(After the roast is removed from the fire, sprinklesome salt upon it, and pour boiling water over it tomake the gravy.Veal, pork, and lamb, should be well done. Porkrequires to be thoroughly done.Fowls are roasted as other meat, and the gravysimilarly prepared. Stuffing for the breast is made[ of bread crumbs, shred suet, parsley, pepper andsalt, mixed together with water or egg.Broiling also requires a brisk, clear tire, free fromsmoke. If the article to be broiled be thick, thefire must be gentle to heat it thoroughly. Thegridiron should* be hot through before any thing isput upon it. Rub it with suet to prevent the meatbeing marked, or sticking to the bars. Chalk thebars for fish.To broil a rump-steak properly, requires moreattention than it generally gets. The best steaksare from the inside of the snrloin ; the next best,from the middle rump, about half an inch thick.™This steak should not be beaten, else it will be dryand hard, and it must be turned often with tongs.Frying is boiling in fat, which must be quitefresh. Lard, suet, and dripping are better adapted| as batter for fish, eggs, potatoes, or anything wa-! tery, than butter.Fish are more difficult to fry than meat: forthem the pan should be hot, and the fat boiling.Cutlets with crumbs must be carefully fried to^prevent their burning.Stewing is the common form of dressing madedishes, and is the best mode of cookery for dry and■ harsh meats, and for dry salted fish. The processnight to go on with extreme slowness, and the ves-sel containing the meat to be kept perfectly close.The lid of the stew-pan should seldom be removed,and shake it frequently, to prevent the meat ad¬hering to the bottom and sides. Dr. Cullen recom¬mends stewing as retaining all the native juicinessof the meat, and obtaining from it the greatestamount of nourishment.Made dishes, by stewing, are liked by the econo¬mist, because a much less quantity of meat thanwould suffice for a boil or roast, will make a goodand well-flavoured dish ; while, by re-dressing,every thing cold is turned to account. The com¬monest fault of made dishes is, that they are over¬done. The general rules for made dishes are, thatthey be not over hastily done, that the sauce besmooth and properly thickened, so as to adhere tothe meat, and that the pieces of meat be not clum¬sily large. A little butter or dripping should bemelted in the stew-pan before the meat is put in.After the meat has been removed to be dished, pre¬pare some flour and water, seasoned with pepperand salt; then, mixing and boiling this with thegravy in the stew-pan, pour it over the meat in theasset or dish.Allow twenty minutes to every pound of meat.BROTH.Put two or three pounds of neck of mutton orhough of beef, into a pot holding four or five Scotchpints of cold water. Two tea-cups-full of barley maybe put in at first if the broth be wanted thick, butif otherwise, when the pot begins to boil. Cuttwo small middling-sized carrots and turnips, to beput in shortly after the boiling commences, and byand by a few onions or leeks. If the greens, whichare added along with the onions, be rank or strong13n:i=!flavoured, boiling water should be poured over thembefore being put in. Green pease and beans requirelittle boiling, but dried pease must be added withthe barley. Throw in a little parsley before. thepot is removed which greatly improves the flavour.Scum well exactly before boiling begins, and asmuch as necessary afterwards.When vegetables are plenty and young, half thequantity of meat will suflice, and less boiling isrequired.scotch hotch potcii.The excellence of this favourite dish dependspj mainly on the meat, whether beef or mutton, being| abundant and fresh, and on the vegetables beingt! all young and full of sweet juice. No barley, but!| plenty of young pease, equal to the whole lot ofjl] beans, turnips, carrots, cauliflower, and parsley.The white of cabbage cut small may be used in-k stead of cauliflower.Loin, or back ribs of mutton, make the sweetest;[ hotch potch. The meat is to be cut into small1 pieces when dished.This is an'expensive dis’\SHEEP’S HEAD BROTH.Choose a large fat head. When well singed,(soak it and the singed trotters all night in luke-warmed water. Before being put into the water,the head must be split, the brains and eyes takenout, and rubbed over the head and feet. Next dayr the gristly parts of the nostrils should be cleaned| out, and all the parts brushed and washed in seve-i ral watersPut the head, with a large cupful of barley, andij about twice that quantity of dried pease, into a gal-14Ion of water. If green pease be used, they are put inshortly before the broth is removed from the fire.Take off the scum as it rises. When the head liasboiled rather more than an hour, add carrots andturnips cut small, and afterwards some onions andparsley. The more slowly the head is boiled, thebetter will both the meat and soup he. A smallpiece of beef or mutton added, greatly improvesthis broth. From three to four hours’ boiling isrequired.POTATO SOUP.A small piece of salted mutton, or a marrow hone,or a lump of dripping, makes a very good soup.Peel the potatoes, take out all the black eyes, andwash them well in two or three waters. The meatmust be well boiled before the potatoes are added.PEASE SOUP.This is a very cheap and capital dish. Half anox head with a bowl of split pease, and a few onionsor a piece of celery, will make three large potsfulof good soup. Throw in a few whole peppers. Allthe salt that soup requires should be thrown inwhile the pot is boiling.The half ox head should be cut into three pieces.Steep them for a day or two in several waters andwash well.Boil for three hours, scum carefully, and strain,if possible.The bone of a ham, or any coarse piece of meat,does for pease soup.TO FRY STEAKS, OR SCOTCH COLLOP.Fry in dripping or butter for twelve or fifteenminutes pieces of rump steak three quarters of an15inch thick. Fry them of a fine brown. Then addthe onions, and brown them too. The pan maybe covered after the steaks are browned, which willrender them more juicy. The onions should he^parboiled and shred before being put into the pan.After the meat has been removed into a hot dishplaced by the fire, pour into the stewpan a littlewater and salt to form the gravy. Allow it to boil,remove the onions to the dish holding the steak,and pour the gravy over both.VEAL CUTLET.Is prepared in a similar manner. No onions. Alittle flour is added to the gravy. The cutlet isj] sprinkled with flour before being put into the stew-pan. A. small bit of fried bacon is a great im¬provement.IRISH STEW.Take some thin pieces of beef or mutton chops ;season them with salt and allspice. Peel, and par-Iboil, a quantity of potatoes and six onions. Laysome shred suet at the bottom of the stew-pan.Slice in an alternate layer of potatoes, meat, andonions ; and let the top be covered with potatoes.It must stove very slowly, and the pan must beclosely and constantly covered.STOVE POTATOES.Put an English pint of water, and from two tothree dozen peeled potatoes, into a stew-pan. Adda large spoonful of dripping or butter, with a fewonions. Sprinkle on pepper and salt. This is acheap, pleasant dish, and eats well with cold meat.I THE SCOTCH HAGGIS.All national dishes are good ; and the reason ofi16this is obvious ; for had they not been acceptableto the palate, they could neither have gained normaintained their supremacy.Clean a sheep’s pluck thoroughly, and make cutsin the heart and liver, to let the blood flow out.Parboil the whole, letting the wind-pipe lie overthe side of the pot so as to disgorge the phlegmand blood from the lungs. The water may bechanged after a few minutes’ boiling for fresh water.A half-hour’s boiling will be sufficient; but throwback half the liver to boil so as to grate easily.Then take the heart, the other half of the liver,and part of the lights, trimming away all skins andblack looking parts, and mince them together.Mince also a pound of good beef suet and four ormore onions, and grate the former half of the liver.Have a dozen of small onions peeled and scaldedin two waters, to mix with this mince. Toastsome oatmeal before the fire for hours, till it is ofa light brown colour, and perfectly dry. Fourteacupsful of meal will be sufficient. Spread thewhole mince on a board, strew the meal lightlyover it, and a high seasoning of pepper and saltwell mixed. Provide a haggis hag perfectly clean,and not thin in any part, else your labour may belost by its bursting. Be careful not to fill the bagtoo full, but allow the meat room to swell; pressout the air, and sew up the bag ; prick it with alarge needle when it first swells in the pot, to pre¬vent bursting. Let it boil slowly for three hours.This is a genuine Scotch Haggis.MINCED COLLOPS, AN ECONOMICAL DISH.Mince a fleshy piece of beef, free of skins andgristles, very fine, and season it with salt and pep¬per. Mix up the collops with a little water, and.ir1 aving browned some dripping in a sauce-pan, puthem to it, and beat them well with a spoon, to- prevent them going into lumps, till they are nearlyeadyPOTTED HEAD.. | Clean an ox head thoroughly, as before directed ;>oil till tender, and cut into small square pieces.Strain the gravy, after seasoning it highly with■nixed pepper and salt. Return the meat cuti jsmall, and the gravy, into a clean sauce-pan. Boil(or some time, and pour it into shapes or basins,iiVVhen cold, turn it out.SCOTCH WHITE PUDDINGS.< Mince good beef suet, but not too finely, andmix with an equal quantity of well toasted oatmeal,IiSeason with plenty of pepper and salt. Finelyilshred onions may be added, if thought an improve-iment.Provide skins thoroughly cleaned and dried, andi cut them of equal lengths. Stuff them with theingredients, and sew the ends. Boil the puddingso for an hour, pricking them as they swell in the pot,I to let out the air. They will keep for months ini bran or oatmeal. When to be used, warm themthrough in hot water, toast them, and serve hot.SWEET WHITE PUDDINGS.Take one pound of beef suet finely minced, oneof bread crumbs, and half a pound of currants, orapples cut extremely small. Season the mixturewith sugar and nutmeg. Prepare as above. Theydon’t keep long.TO STEW AND FRY TRIPE.Clean well in cold water, and scald till it gets"perfectly white, and the rough inside skin peels ofi|Lay it for a day in salt and water; repeat thiijagain in fresh salt and water. Boil in fresh sal jjand water till quite tender. A little milk improve|jit.When wanted for table, stew in milk and watellwith a few onions. The gravy may be thickenenflwith flour and butter, and seasoned according ttaste.Fried Tripe may be done in the usual way of tfry, and served with melted butter'VEAL PIE.The loin, back ribs, and the breast, are the parts ;usually taken for a pye. Cut into small pieces,dust with flour, and season with salt and pepper.When the meat is put into the dish add a littleiwater. For the pye paste, take some flour, a littlebutter and dripping, and knead them well, addinga very little water to make the dough roll out. ’Roll out twice or thrice before covering. Surroundthe edge of the dish with a strip of dough, and layon the cover. 1 •Fire thoroughly, and give time according to thesize of the pye.A MEAT PUDDING.Take quarter of a pound of finely minced freshsuet, and one pound, of flour. Knead them welltogether, with a little water, adding salt, and rollout the paste. Lay from one to two pounds of beefcut into small pieces upon the paste, season withpepper and salt, and cover up with the paste. Aquarter hundred of oysters, or crumbs of bread andwell shred parsley, put along with the meat is a19great improvement. Put the pudding into a basinor bowl, tie over with a cloth, and boil for two orthree hours.FRUIT PUDDINGSare made in a manner similar to the above, onlyvarying the ingredients according to circumstances.COLD ARROAV ROOT SHAPE.A teacupful of arrow root to a mutchkin of milk,Mix the arrow root with a little cold water, andpour the milk, being first boiled, and sweetenedwith a bit of sugar, over the mixture, stirring allthe time. Put the whole into the pan, boil fromtwo to three minutes, and pour into a shape orbowl. When cold, turn out.POTTED HERRINGSClean well, cut off the head and fins. Mix saltand pepper, and put a good deal into the inside ofeach fish. Lay them together with the back upper¬most in a deep asset. Over half-a-dozen herrings,sprinkle a table spoonful of vinegar. Place thembefore a slow fire for an hour. They are eatencold.This is a cheap, convenient, and agreeable dish,especially in warm weather, and far superior to thecommon salt herring, or dried fish.BAKING.PLAIN GINGERBREAD.Mix with one pound of flour, one of treacle,quarter pound of butter, one ounce and a half ofground ginger and caraway seeds, two ounces of20sugar, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of potash.Let it stand for two hours before the fire previousto being baked.SHORTBREAL.Take two pounds of flour, one pound of butter,fresh or salt, quarter pound of pounded loaf sugar.Mix the sugar with one pound and a half of theflour; then melt the butter, and pour it when cool¬ing upon this mixture, stirring it quickly. Withthe remainder of the flour, make it into a circlehalf an inch thick ; cut into eight, and notch eachbit round the edge with the point of the finger.Put the pieces upon white paper dusted with flour,then into tins, and bake in a moderate oven.CURRANT LOAF.Send to the baker to be put into a quartern loaf,three quarters of a pound of currants cleaned,quarter pound of butter, quarter of sugar, half anounce of cinnamon.This bread maybe much improved by the ad¬dition of raisins, almonds, and more butter.PLAIN NEW YEAR'S DAY BUN.Clean and stone one pound of raisins; cleanthree of currants; add half a pound of orange peel,the same quantity of almonds blanched and split,one ounce of Jamaica pepper, one of ginger, agrated nutmeg, and half an ounce- of cinnamon.Send the above to the baker to be made into a halfpeck bun.By getting your bun made in this way, a savingis effected.21OATMEAL CAKES.is a very good variety of home made bread. Thebest points to be attended to, are, baking withboiling water, rolling out dry, quick, and thin, andre-toasting the bread when about to be put upontable.PRESERVES.The secret of keeping preserves is to exclude theair from them. Set them in a dry spot, and donot place the pots on each other. They must beproperly boiled, for heat causes them to ferment,and damp to grow mouldy. If not likely to keep,the only way is to boil them again.The more sugar to fruit the less boiling is re¬quired. The fruit should be gathered on a dryday, and used immediately. When the fruit hasgot wet it must be boiled longer.GOOSEBERRY JAM.To every pint of the fruit carefully picked put apound and a half of sugar. Shake the brass panfrequently to prevent burning. Skim whenever itcomes a-boil. After ten minutes’ boiling, trywhether it jellies by dropping a little on the plate.When ready, put in pots, and cover with paper theday following.CURRANT JELLY.Squeeze the fruit carefully through a cloth.Throw away the refuse. To every mutchkin ofstrained juice add one pound of white sugar finelybruised. Put both into the preserving pan ; skim „when coming a-boil ; then boil for two minutes.Put in pots or small jars.Preserves of other fruits are made in a similarmanner.22Every housekeeper should he acquainted withsome neat and economical manner of laying outthe table for those festive occasions that occur nowand then in the family, such as a holiday break¬fast, a christening dinner, or a marriage supper.A tastefully spread table communicates a feelingthat is more easily felt than described. It becomesa great recommendation to the mistress of thehouse.HOLIDAY BREAKFAST.Tea.Eggs-Toast. Rolls.Butter.Ham. Honey. Fowl.Butter.Rolls. Bread.Fish.CoffeeThe number of dishes can be diminished or increased at convenience.CHRISTENING DINNER.Yeal Cutlet.Vegetables. Potatoes.Arrow Root Shape.Fowl. Cream. Boiled Salt Beef.Preserve.Beat Potatoes. Vegetables.Beef Pie.23MARRIAGE SUPPER.Veal Pie.Tarts. Cream.Potatoes.Fruit. Shortbread,Small Round ofSalt Beef.Should parties prefer, tea may be taken pre-nously ; and, after an hour or two of easy and.■ational conversation, supper may be brought in.Extravagance and dissipation are highly blame¬worthy, and quite contrary to good manners.GROCERIES, &c.In no department of family economy can a moreeffectual and judicious saving be made, than in thelirticles included under this division of our subject.Tea and Sugar are coming into daily and uni¬versal use, and yet in the manner of purchasing’ em by certain classes they bear an enormousrice.Tea should be chosen by the small size and curlf the leaf, and by the strength as well as freshnessf the flavour. Large flat leaves, and pieces ofick, show that it is coarse, and of inferior quality.Jf it be not much adulterated, yet there is too muchSeason to believe that tea is sold at a certain price,rhile mixed with tea that bears an inferior one.’hough it may be had of all prices, still it is aertain fact, that cheap coarse tea is ultimately the21di'arest. Were it possible tor people of the huinbk'class to purchase their tea in wholesale, instead o:lsmall quantities, or even half-pounds or pounusi'(which is a remarkably dear way,) a comparativelylarge saving would be accomplished,—nearly o«<r|half of the price. Is there any easy means o:|purchasing, wholesale ? it may be asked.* Let thejone we propose be tried, Supposing a number ofpeople have collected among themselves a sum sufjticient to buy a whole or half chest of tea, let their!.place the money in the hands of some person whljhas their confidence,- such as the pastor, a-n elderor a deacon of the church to which they belong iand let the individual thus entrusted (having giver,a receipt for the amount) see that there be disti'i-ibuted to each individual the quantity he has suwscribed for. If a family spend two pounds annuallyon tea, then, having effected a saving of one, h]such a plan, there is so much money to lay ou-either on more tea, or some other necessary articleSince operatives subscribe with so much facilityand readiness to the objects of trades’ unions, anoconfidently trust large sums of their money to ontfor two individuals, in these matters, why canythey subscribe and entrust in a case where then1own and family’s comfort, as well as adyanfa®are so much concerned ?>vims.