THE?LIFE AND ADVENTURESSir William Wallace,.GENERAL and GOVERNOR of SCOTLAND.i particular Account of his molt remarkableBattles with King Edward (Longfhanks) ;And of his mournful Fate at London, afterhe was betrayed into the Hands of theEngliih: Where he was put to Death, andhis-Body quartered, and fent to differentTowns in Scotland.Ln Account of the Battle of Bannockburn,which was fought June 24th, 1314.Glasgow,EUNTED BY J AND M ROBERTSON,O FCONTAININGWITHMDrrvrivTHEHISTORY OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.HE Iiiftory'of Sir William Wallace, with theother of the valiant King Robert Bruce, whiclfolioweth upon the end of it, and of which this is an abridgement, was written in Latin by Mr. John Blair, chapIain to Wallace, and turned into Scots metre by one call-*ed Blind Harry, in the days of King James IV. and tinhiilory of Bruce was written by Mr. John Barbour, archdean of Aberdeen, a learned man, in the days of K. Da-vid Bruce and Robert Stewart, and both together contaira relating of the moft famous war that ever fell out in thiifle of Britain, fought moft valiantly for the fpace of 4cyears, between the two realms of Scotland and England,the one unjuftly purfuing, the other conftantly defending;the liberties oi their country. During which broils, thenhappened great alterations, both in the general ftate othis kingdom, and in the overthrow and advancement oparticular families, the one for betraying, the other foimaintaining their country’s freedom and welfare.That the whole hiftory may be more clear, we havtthought good, in a fhort introdmftion, to fet down the caufjes, occaiions, and the moft memorable paflages of this warIn the jear 1285, Alexander the Hid. king of Scotland, being fuddenly taken away by a fall from his horieat Kinghorn, without any iffue of his body, and in hirsithe whole pofterity of his father Alexander the II. amgrandfather William the Lyon, being extinct, the rigbiof the crown fell to the heirs of David earl of Huntingtoand Garioch, youngeft brother to William the Lyon, Hhad left three daughters, the eldeft Margaret, man led tAllan Lend of Galloway; the fecond, Ifibei, to RobetBruce* (fi^named the noble,) Lord of Annandale anCleveland : the youngeft, Ada, married Henry hailing! •an Engliftiman ; who having no juft title to the crowr ;the contention refted betwixt the pofterity of the two ekkdaughters; for Allan, Lord of Galloway, leaving no foiby In's wife Margaret ; his eldeft daughter Dornagilla >Galloway, mthried John Baliol, a man of grev* power an .lands both in Scotland, England and France, and bare t .him John Baliol afterwards King. Robert Bruce, by hwife Ifabel of Huntington, bad Robert Bruce, who camtn hf prrl fprriel:. hv maiTvintr Maitha, heritrix thenTHE HISTORY O F, &c. 5of, and who contended with John Baliol, and died in thetime of Wallace’s wars. His eldeft fon, Robert Bruce,fucceeded King of Scotland.Dornagilia of Galloway claimed the crown, as heir toMargaret, eldeft: daughter to prince David. Robert Bruce,earl of Garrick, albeit fon to Ifabel the fecorid daughter,yet, contended that, in feudal fucceffion, the firft male oughtto fucceed before a woman Handing in the fame degree, asa fon excludeth his lifter from fucceflion, altho’ fne.be el¬der ; and therefore he and Dornagilia of Galloway, Hand¬ing in the fecond degree fiom prince David, he oughtto be preferred ;o her: as for her fon, John Baliol, hecould claim no right but by her, and likewife was a de¬gree further off from prince David. The like pra&ice hadfallen out fome 10 years before, in Hugh the fourth dukeof Burgundy, whofe eldeft fon Hugh’, (dying before hisfather) left a daughter, Join, countefs of Nevers, whoclaimed to fncceed her grandfather Hugh IV. Notwith-ftsnding Robert, fecond fon to the fame Hugh IV. waspreferred to her, and fucceeded the duke of Burgundy \ ifthen the fecond fon, in feudal inheritance, fucceed beforethe eldeft fun’s daughter, far more ought the nephew tofucceed before the niece. The right of fucceffion being thusmade doubtful, the competitors were fo powerful, that theydrew the greateft part of the kingdom into two equal fac¬tions; fo that it feeraed impoffible to fettle the ccntrover-{y at home, without running into a pernicious civil war.The dates of Scotland, to prevent this mifehief, thoughtit fitted to fumbit tie arbitrament of the plea to EdwardI. firnamed Long Shanks, king of England, and that up-*j on divers weighty reafons : for he and his father K. Henry1 III. being joined by many alliances, of bands and friend-I {hip to the two laft kings of Scotland, had lived in greatj amity and concord with them, receiving and interchang-i ing many favours and kind duties. The two competitorsa alfo, Bruce and Baliol, had as great lands in England as inB Scotland, fo that he, and he only, was able to make then*I {land to reafon. Finally, the Hates of Scotland not beingft able to determine the plea, there }vas no prince betidesh more powerful, and, in appearance, more like to compofep the controverfy, without great blood-ftied. This motion| was in fecret very greedily embraced by K. Edward, hop-D ing» in fo troublefome a water, to find a gainful iilhieg.4 THE HISTORY OFcither by drawing the kingdom of Scotland under the di-^leet iubjeftion, or at leaft under his homage, as lord para- •mount.and fuperior : Confidering the difficulty to deter¬mine the queilioti at home, and the intereft he had in bothparties, being (for a great part of their eflates) his vaffalsand fubje&s: his great power alfo, having, befides Ireland,a great part of France under his dominion, and the lowcountries lu's allured confederates, g re.e him great encour- .agerr.ent ; neither wanted he great friendfliip in Scotland,having at that time, many of the greateft noblemen in Scot¬land, vaffals and leudaries to himfelf for many lands which <they held in England, partly for great fervices done tohimfelf and his father, partly lying within Northumber¬land, and the border Ihires, then held by the Scots in feeof England : Partly alfo by interchange of marriage andfuccefiions between the two nations, which for a long timehad lived in great amity, as if it had been one kingdom. ’And to make the controverfy more fearful, he furred upother 8 competitors befides Bruce and Baliol, Florencecarl of Holland (defcended of Ada) filter to William the ■Lyon ; Patrick Dumbar earl of March 5 Sir Walter Rofs ; 7Sir Nicolas (joules; Sir Roger Mandeville ; Sir John ;Cumrning of Badenoch, (thefe five were defcended ofyounger daughters of .\llan, lord of Galloway) Sir Wil¬liam Vifcie, begotten upon king Alexander lid’s baftarddaughter, but pretending to be ligitimate ; and John Halt- |jugs' lord Abergaveny, defcended of Ada, youngelt daugh¬ter to orince David Huntington.Edward, tuning thusprepared matters, came to Berwick,.and met with the hates cf Scotland, to whom he promif-ed to decide the controverfy according to equity; and that'it might feena more likely, Jie brought from France fundryof the moll famous lawyers of that age ; he chofe alfo outof the hates of Scotland ^ffembled, twelve of the wifeltand moh honourable, to whom he joined the like numberof Engliflf, as ahefibrs to him in his arbitrament. At themeeting, by the doubtful auTwers of lawyers, and the num¬ber of new precedents, he made the mat‘er more difficult,and appointed a new convention at Norhaox, on the bor¬der, in the year follow ing.Difficulties thus increaling, and the earl of Holland ha- .ving on foot a great army, to take the crown of Scot’andjfcy fexce, (which their own flouts affirm,, to have landedS I R W I L L I A M W A L L A C E. ?in Scotland, and to have intercepted fome fircncrths) atthe meeting of Norham, king Edward dealt fecretly, andby fit agents, with the Hates of Scotland, for (hunningimminent dangers, to become his fubjtfts ; he, being de-feended of King David’s fifter, and fo but two degreesfurther from the crown of Scotland than Bruce or Baliolwere. This being .flatly refufed by all, he betook him tohis other defign. Apd firil dealt fecretly with Robert Bruce,promifing to difeern in his favours, if he would take tirecrown of Scotland holden of him, and do him homage forit. But In? floutly refufed to fubiedt a free nation to anyovert lord; whereupon king Edward called for John Ba¬liol, who, knowing that he was not fo much favoured ofthe States of Scotland, eafily condefeended to king Ed¬ward’s defire, and was by him declared King of Scotland ;lithe States, defirous of peace, conveyed him to Scoon, wherethe was crowned, aano 1291, and all, except Bruce, fwore1 obedience to him. Thereafter Duncan Macduff, earl of^Fife, was killed by lord Abernethy, (a man of great pow-1 er in thofe times, allied both with the Cummings and J3a-'1 liol;) the earl’s brother, finding the King partial in the ad-i miniftration of juft ice, fnmmoned him to compear beforetithe King of England in parliament; where being prel’tRt,Hand fitting befide King Edward, (after he had done himohomage) when he was called upon, thought to attfwcr bya procurator ; but he was forced to rife, and Hand at thebar This indignity grieved him greatly, he refolved tofree hlmftlf of this bondage. At the fame time war break¬ing out.between England and France, ktngjidward fdntimbaffadors to the parliament of Scotland to fend aid toaim, as now being their over-lord. There came nlfo otherIimbafiadors from France, defiring the ancient league to be•euewed. The King and the States of Scotland renewedhe league with France, which had remained, inviolablytept, for the fpace of 506 years before. The king of En >•_and’s fuit was rejected, becaufe the pretended forrender1tnd homage, was made by John paiio! privately, withoutt:he cenfent of the parliament. A marriage was aifo con-pluded betwixt prince- Edna, J Baliol, and a daughter ofLharles, earl of Valois, brother to the French king Philip.■Edward having forefeen all thefe things, had drawn Ro.ibert Bruce, earl of C arrick, with his friends, (enemies toiuBahol) and divers noblemen of Scotland, who held knda6 THE HISTORY OFof him in England, to bi^rg- fuch forces as they could make,to afilft him in the French war ; but withal taking truce •with the French for fome months, he fuddenly turned hisforces deftined agaiml; France, towards Scotland. His na¬vy was vanquifhed at Berwick, and 18 of his fhijrs taken.Yet his land holt, by the means of the Brucian faction, ;and the Englifhed-Scots noblemen, took the town of Ber¬wick with great daughter, and Ihortly thereafter, Dunbar,Edinburgh and Stirling. In, and about thefe caftles, hehad killed and taken captives the greateft part of .*he Scotsnoblemen ; fo that eroding Forth, the blow being fo fud-den, he found no preparation for refiltance, Baliol furren-dered himfelf to king Edward at Montrofe, and was fentby him into England, where he remained captive till fuchtime as by iutercefiion of the Pope, he was fet at liberty,fwearing and giving hoftages never to return to Scotland,King Edward came to Scoon, and took upon him thecrown of Scotland, as forfeited by the rebellion of hishomager Baliol. He fent for the nobles of Scotland whoremained, that they, with fuch as were his captives, might ■fwear homage to him as to their liege Lord and King,thofe who refufed, were detained prifoners.King Edward, thinking that now all was fure for him,in Scotland, left John Plantagenet, (fome cafl him Y'ar-rert) earl of Surry, and Sir Hugh Creflingham treafurer,and returned to profecute the French war, taking fuch of■the nobility of Scotland as lie feared, along with him, withtheir followefs. The great men of Scotland, being in this;mariner either imprifoned by king Edward, or fworn tohis obedience, and tied thereto by reafon of the lands Hold¬en of the crown of England, the reit either fled into theifles or highlands, cr thought it fufiicient to defend theirown till, better times.But while men of power negl£fted the public caufe of 1the liberty of Scotland, William Wallace, a youth or hon-•ouiable birth, being fon to Malcofn Wallace of Elderflie,but of mean power, having (irll in private killed many Eng*lifhmen of the gairifons as he could overtake them, by !■thefe exploits, being fo encouraged, (being a man of in¬vincible Kardinefs, incredible firength of body and withalvery wife and circumfperit) that be gathered his friends andneighbours, and by jeopardies and ftratagems, divers times<su£ off great numbers of the enemy; the report thereofS I R W I L L I A M W A L L A C E. 7Ircw to him, fuch ns afFefted the liberty-and welfare of.heir countrv, and had courage to hazard themfclvcs for/indicating thereof. As namely the earl Malcom Eennox,;he lord YVilliam Douglas, (who had been taken captive at.he winning of Berwick, whereof he was captain, and fenttome upon a(Turanee) Sir John Graham, Sir Neil Camp-ael, Sir Chriftopher Seaton, Sir John Ramfay, Sir FergusBarclay, Andrew Murray, William Oliphant, Hugh Hay,Robert Boyd, John Johnftoun, Adam Gordon, RobertKeith, Ronald Crawford younger, Adam Wallace, RogerKilp atrick, Simon and Alexander Frazers, James Craw-Ford, Robert Lauder, Scriminger, Alexander Auch nleck,Ruthven, Richard I.undie, William Crawford, ArthurBidet, James and Robert Lindfay, John Cle'and, WilliamKer, Edward Little, R.obert Rutherford, Thomas Hal¬fday, John Tinto,- Walter Newbigging, Gerdan Ba rd,Gutheries, Adam Currie, LIugh Dundafs, John Scot, Ste¬ven Ireland, Mr. John Blair, Mr. Thomas Grey, and othergentlemen with their friends and fervants ; who after famevaliant exploits happily atebieved, and an armv of 10,000men, led by Thomas ead of Lancafter to the earl of War¬ren, defeated by Wallace at Bigger, (holding an affemblyat the Foreft Kirk) chofe Wallace to be warden of Scot¬land, and viceroy in BalioLs place: In which olhee, hefo valiantly behaved himfelf, that in a fhort fpnee he reco¬vered all the {Length on the border, and brought thefouth part of Scotland to good quiet. tThe Englifh fearing the lofs of all, fubtilly took trucewith Wallace for one year, beginning in February. In Junefollowing, they proclaimed a Jultice eyre to be held at Glaf-gow and Air the 18th of that month, thinking to entrapWallace and all his friends, and under colour of law, to cutthem off at the day appointed. All landed men affordingto the cudom, aflembling to this court, the Englifh con¬demned them for felony, and hanged-them prefently ; a-inonglt*the reft, Sir Ronald Crawford, fhenff of -iir, un¬cle to Wallace, Sir Bryce Blair, Sir Neil Montgomery,and many of the batons of Kyle, Cunningham, Garrick,and Clydefdale. Thofe who efcaped by flight, ad vert‘fedWallace, who chanced to come later than the reft, lie af-fembling fuch of the country, as (detefting. fo horrible afaft) extremely hated the authors thereof, in tlie beginningI of tlie night, fecretly entered iato Air, fet dire to the place8 THE HISTORY OFwhere the Er.glifhmer;, after that faft, were fecurely fleep-ing, and fuffered none to efcape. The garrifon of the caf-tlc iffued forth to quench the fire, an ambufh; laid for thepurpofe, entered the houfe and made it fure. The nextmorning Wallace came to Glafgow, where the Lord Hen¬ry Piercy had retired from Air the day before; him heexpulfed thence with great flaughter. The vi&ory he fohotly purfued, that immediately thereafter he took thecalile of Stirling, recovered Argyll, and Lorn, with thetown of St. Johndoun, and country about; thence he trav¬elled thro’ Angus and Mearns, taking in all the llrengthsuntil he came to Aberdeen, which he found forfaken bythe Englifh, who had Red by fea, with the lord HenryBeaumount, an Englifh lord, who had married the heretrixof the earldom of Buchan, named Cum'ming. Thus all thenorth country was reduced to the obedience of Wallace,except the caftle of Dundee; while he lay at the fiegethereof, r* ws came of the approach of the Englifh army,led by John earl of Warren and Surry, and Sir HughCrefnngham with a great number of Northumberland menand fuch of thr Scots as held with England, to the num¬ber ef 30,coo. Wallace having with him 10,000 menhardened in arms, met them befide Stirling, on the northfide of the Forth, which having no fords at that place, waspaffible only by a wooden bridge. This he on purpofe had.caufed to be weakened, fo that the one half of the holt be¬ing paft, led by Creffingham, the bridge broke with thegreat weight of their baggage. Thofe who were come o-ver, Wallace charged fuddenly, before they were put inorder, and cut the molt part in pieces, with their leaderCreflingham : the reft feeking to efcape were drowned inthe water. The earl of Warren, and thofe that efcaped,were afftiled by earl Malcom Lennox, captain of Stirlingcaftle, and being hotly purfued by Wallace, hardly efcap¬ed, hithfelf Hying into Dumbar, a caftle then belonging tothe earl of March. Ir this battle, fought the 13th of Sep¬tember, 1297, there died no Scotfman of remark, but An¬drew Mm.ay of Bothwell. The Englifh garrifons hearingof this difeomfiture, Red from all places, fc that before thelaft of September, all the ftrengths of Scotland were re¬covered except Berwick and Roxburgh.After thofe viftories he held a parliament at St. John-ftoun, as warden of Scotland, and fettled the whole coun-olK. W I L I M W A L. /t fc.. ^try, can tincj the nobility to iwear to be fakhJoi to 1'ieState, till fuch times as they might contluceiyl who fuo.iidhe King i Earl Patrick Dunbar refilling to acknowledgethe authority of this parliament, was chafed out of Scot¬land'; and becaufe the year by-paft, the ground had notbeen manured, and great famine threatened the land, Wal¬lace affembled a great holt, and entered England, wherehe remained all the winter and the.fprihg following, a ring■upon the enemies’ proviilons* and eqrichijig his iolekefs by_their fpoil; during which time the Euglifn dnrit never en¬counter him in open field : Only at the firib eigry. KingEdward, with a great army of raw iohliers, came againtlhim in the plain of Stan mure ; hut perceiving .the difcip-line and hardy refolution of Wallace’s hoik, before theycame nearer than half a mile, drew back his army and re¬tired'; Wallace, for fear of ambufh, kept his foldiers inorder, and purfuep them not Thus King EdwaM left hiscountry to the mercy of a provoked enemy ; and notwith-ftanding that he promifed battle, yet he kept himfelf cloletil! a peace was concluded for live years, Iderwick andRoxburgh being rendered to the tjcc^s. .Scotland thus enjoying perfect liberty, Wallace, beingearneftly requeued by the French King, to tbs end that,his fpecial captains might be kept in military exereife dur¬ing the peace, failed over to France, with 50 of them ii»his company. He was encountered on tire way by Thomaaof Charter!!, (commonly called Thomas of Longueville, )-who, with 16 fail, infeftedthc ieas: hut boarding. Wailaae’sfliip, he was taken by him, and thereafter fought molt va¬liantly under him and king Robert Bruce, for the libertyof Scotland. After Wallace landed in France, he was em¬ployed in war sgainlt the Englifh, who at that time pof-fefled the duchy of Guienne and Bourdeaux ; them he de¬feated in fundry [kirmifhes. But in a few clays he was call¬ed home by feme of his friends in Scotland ! for King Ed¬ward, uncierflanding his abfence, and pretending that hehad broken the peace in Guienne, dealt with Robert Brucepail of Carric|c, and his friends, and with fuch nob’eme.jpf Scotland as held lands in England, or envied Wallace’sglory telling, that it was a fhame for them to fuffer Wal¬lace a mean gentleman, to rule Scotland, while any of theblood royal djd remain ; fo promifmg hia affiftanct to Ro-: berf Bruce, he fent a great army into Scotland, and by theno THE HISTORY OF'iVlp of the Brupian faclioa, and En^llfhed nobis nen, he-eaiil/ obtained the srreateft ftren^thi of Scotland Wallacereturned the next lu in .Tier and, fecretly amaffing a mnnber •-of his fpccial follcrvers, who had lurked till his'back-corn-ing, on a fedden furprifed St. Johnftoun by a ftratag'em ;and purfuing his viedory hotly, chafed the Euglilh out of ,Fife. Upon the report hereof, all the red of his followerscame from their lurking holes, by vvhrfe a Alliance he re¬covered divers ftrengths. The lord William Douglas tookthe catlle of Sanquhar by a ftmagem, and finding the Eng- 'lith captains of the neareft garrifons coming to beliege him,he tent fecretly to Wallace,-who coming with his power,not only railed the fiegc, but chafed all the Engliih gar- 'rifons out of the.c quarters: from whence he came to the :north parts, winch he recovered with fmall difficulty, ex- >cept the ftrong caftle of Dundee, to which he laid liege.F'I'he King of England, grieved at the fortunate fuccefs -■cf Wallace, and under dan ding that he was highly enviedby the earl of March, the C rownings, (the grealeit tur-'■name then in Scotland) and divers ancient noblemen, (frontwhofe honour Wall ce’s renown feemed to derogate) he 'llirred up Robert Bruce eider, and hisfadtion, perfuading !them that. Wallace was Bruce’s only competitor for thecrown. Having fo made a lining party for himfelf inthe next fpring he came with an army of 40,000 men,•Scots and Englilh, to Falkirk, 6 miles from Stirling. The 1Scots army was very great, being 30,000 llron-g, if .they 1had been all of one mind. For John Gumming lord ofCumbernauld, (who had an eye to the crown) had per-:Haded the lord John Stewart of Bute, being tutor, andgrandfather by the mother, to the lord James Stewart ofRenfrew, lately deceaftd, to contend with Wallace lor the'leading of the van-guard, alledging that the lame belonged 1to the lord Stewart’s houfe by ancient privilege Wallace, :refufmg this, they parted one from another in high chaff, ■there remaining with him no more than ic,coo of his ?old fdldiers. Gumming with 1000 of his followers, af¬ter a ffilall fhevv of re 11 ft a nee, fled treafonably, leaving thevaliant Stewart inclofed by two battalions of the Englilh, 'by whom, after he had fought valiantly for a long time, He 1was cut off with all his followers. Wallace with his partydefended themfelves valiantly, until they were fafely retir¬ed beyond the river Carron, loiing (belides fome others)5 1 it W 1 L, L. 1 A M W L. 1L. 'l lthe noblj Sir J->hn Grahan, the moil valiant worthy orScotland, next unto Wallace. Bruce, whom the kin£ oiEngland had brought with all his friends into the field,pretending to affiil him for recovery of his right fir on; theufurper. Bruce, perceiving Wallace on the other fide theCarron, defired to fpeak with him,' and upbraiding himwith fo foolith an ufurpation of the kingdom of Scotland,againft fo powerful a faclion at home, affitled by fo mightya king abroad. I, ar.fwered Wallace intend never to reignin Scotland, but finding my native country abandoned byyou and Baliol, who have the right to the crown, have fietmyfelf to. defend my friends and neighbours, from the un¬juft tyranny and ufurpation of the king of England, whofetteth you forth moll unnaturally to tear the bowels o*your mother with your own hands. After divers fpeecuesto this purpofe, Bruce, perceiving the fraudful and tyrau-oiis dealing of king Edward, returned to the hod. Thenext morning Wallace, undertlanding that the Eoglifh ar¬my whs weakly entrenched and in great i’ecurity, a mailingwith his own army fuel; as had efcaped, fet upon them inthe dawning before they could be arrayed, and killed ma¬ny : fo that the English king retuTned at that tim^with-out any further exploit. Bruce, remembring what lie heatdof Wallace, defired king Edward, according to his formerpromifes, to put him in poffefilon of fo much of the kingdomoi Scotland as then was under his power ; to whom he an-fvvered in the French tongue, * Have we no more ado butconquer kingdoms for^/ou.’ By this fpeech the lord Bruceconceived fo great giief and anger, that within few dayshe departed this life without feeing his eld-A fon RobertBruce, afterwards King, he being kept for alfurance of hisfather’s obedience in Calais caftle in France.After this unhappy battle, Wallace, ftriving to recoverfuch caftles and ftreogth as King Edward had intercepted,found fuch oppofition and backwardnefs, by envious emu¬lators, that he returned to St. Johnftoun, and, in the af-fembly of the States, refigned Iris charge of warden, and.w ith 18 Tien paffed again into France, according to a pro-mife at his return therefrom. This fell out at the end ofthe year 1300. The oppofite faction having gained theirdefire, chofc John Gumming governor ; the rather becaufeking Edward had promiled to afiill him to the crown of1 Scotland. But he found him as great au enemy as he hadb.’n'Ji to Wallace. For. after 7 months truce, obtained by•means of the French lung, Edward fent Sir Ralob Sod-frey with a great amy to fubdue trie Scots, «nd to pm aa .end to the war, which they expected would be eafy, Wal¬lace being nowont of the way. John'Cu'nminr, joiningwith tl : lord Simon Frafer, making 8000 or uooo men,came to refill: the Englifh, who having wafted the cotvnry ’as far as Roflin, about 5 mi’es from Edinburgh, expe&iagno refiftanefc, divided them: ives into 3 parties, that theymight fpoil farther into the country. The Scots embracingthe occafion, let upon the fir ft divifion, and eafilv difeona-;’ iited them ; the fecond alfo, albeit ftronger bv the Joiningof thole who fled, was after a long conflict put to the rout.33y this the third divifon, coming to the revenge, pnt tiieScots to a great ftrait, as being forely wounded, wearied,,and weakened, in the two former battles, and having to ;vdthftand a fre.li enemy, of far greater number: hereuponthey were forced to kill all the captives, left they fliouldaflift the enemy, and with their weapons to arm the bag-'gage men : and fetting forward both with courage and ne-ceflity, feeing no cfcape, after a long and hard fight, they ;put tbS* enemy to flighf*. This was March r-ptb, 1302.Kitig Edward, fore incenfed by this evil fuccefs, fent for .Rolx’rt Bruce younger out of Calais, whom he perfuaded,that he had fora long time, againft Wallace, defended hisfather’s right to the crown of Scotland: that having putWallace out of the way,'he found the Cummings as greatenemies : Nptvrithftanding, he intended yet once more toput that enemy out of the way, and to fettle him in his :kingdom. The young prince believing him, caufed all hisfriends and favourers in Scotland, to join with him, and en¬tering the border, fpoiled the country, and took divers caf-tlcs as far as Douglas Some report that the Lady Doug-,las, named Ferras, an Englifh woman,-betrayed that caftleto the Bruce, who took die lord William Douglas cap¬tive, with all his children and goods. The word hinifdf waskept prifoner in Berwick, and thereafter in York, wherehe died. Mean time, king Edward had prepared a mightyarmy, both by land and fea, with which he entered Scot- ■Sand,'.and fubdued all before him while he came to Stirling,kept then by Sir William Ollphant, who after a long fiege,knowing of no relief, yielded the caftle upon condition,t^at hiiBfelf and all that were with him, fhould pals with■■■ . * • tV.elr lives fafe : Notwithllandinp; king Edward kept ildlall the noblemen, together with the captain Sir WilftamOliphant ; and frjch as would not fwear homage to him,(pretending to be the prote&or of Robert Bruce’s right)he fent prifoners to London. Hav,»ng in this caille inter-ceoted divers of John Cumming’s friends, he procuredthem to draw him to a parley with him ; in which he foblinded him with the hopes of the kingdom, and with fearof utter undoing, that he joined himfelf and his friends tothe Englbh; who, by this acceffion, eafUy palled forwardwith the conrfe of victory, as far as the utmoft bounds ofRofs: and in his ba.ck coming, carried away with him in-(to England all hooks, regilters, hi'.tories, laws and monu¬ments of the kingdom : and among others, the fatal mar¬ble chair, whereupon the former Scots Kings ufed to becrowned at Scoot), on which was engraven a prophecy,bearing, Tha! wherever this ch'iir fhuuht he tra fporle.l, theSeats fhoultl coirrnand there. He carried alfo with him allthe learned men and proFeffors of Scotland, among othersthe famous Doftor John Duns, .furnamed Scours, think¬ing thereby to difeourage and effe tinate the minds of theScots, that they Ihouid call off all care of recovering theirliberty, the memory thereof being drowned in oblivion.At'his return into England, he left his coufiri, Sir Ay-iner Vallance, earl of Pembroke, viceroy, having fortifiedall the caftles with ftrong garrifons.The Scots who Hood /or the liberty of their country,being forfakeu by John Gumming, fent earned letters toFrance to move Wallace to return. He was then makingwar upon the Englifn in Guienrfe*; but hearing the mif-chiefs of his country, he obtained leave of the French kingto return : and fecrefjy gathering fome of his old friends,recovered divers caftles and towns in the north", and hav-ing greatly increafed his army, befieged St. Johuftoun, tillit furrendered. But as he proceeded in the courfe of hisvictories, he was betrayed by his familiar friend, Sir JohnMonteith, to Aymer de Vallance, who fent him into Eng¬land, where, by king Edward’s command, he was put todeath, and his body quartered, and fent into the principal•cities of Scotland, to he fet up. for a terror to others., Notwithflanding, this cruelty prevailed little for tjje aff- .• Turing of king Edward’s conqueft ; new enemies arifin'gwhence he lea ft eapedted: for as he returned from his Lit- ■ T  * XX 1 O X W IV I, journey into Scotland, John Gumming and Robert Brucemeeting together, after a long conference on the ilate oftheir country, perceived, that notwithstanding he had pro- ■mi fed to each of them apart his help to obtain the crown -of Scotland, yet his intention was only to ufe their affiil-ance to conquer and fecure it to himfelf, as he well declar- ■*ed, by Ipoiling the country of all monuments, public and , Pprivate Hereupon they agreed, that Gumming Ihould quital! n.is rights to the crown in fayoars of Bruce, and thatBruce fhuuld give him all his lands for his afiidance, andthis contract was written and fealed by both parties. Up¬on this Bruce, watching an opportunity to rife in arms, *left his wife and children in Scotland, and went to the courtof England. After his departure, Camming (as it is re¬ported) either repenting himfclf of this agreement, or elfe , ,endeavouring fradulently to oppofe his co-rival, and fo ob-tam an ealier way to the kingdom, revealed their fecretcombination to Edward ; and in evidence of it, he fent himthe covenant figned by them both. Upon that, Bruce wasimpleaded as guilty of high treafon : he was forbidden todepart the court, and a private guard fet over hi tig to in-fptCl his words and afiions. Flie king’s delay to punifhhim for a crime fo manifefl, proceeded from a defire he •, had to take his brethren too, before they had heard anynotfe of his execution.Bruce advertised of his danger by.the earl of Gloucefter(tome call him the earl of Montgomery) his old friend,who had lent him a pair of ih.nrp fpurs, and fome crownsof gold, as if he had borro wed the fame, gueffing the ’'meaning of this ftropine, catfft d by night, ihoe three hor-fes backward, and polled away from court with two in hiscompany, and on the fifth day (the way being deep inwinter,) arrived at bis own cattle of Lochmabtne, wherehe found his brother Edward, with Robert Fleming, JamesUndtay, Robert Kilpatrick, and Thomas Charters, whotold him how Wallace was betrayed by Sir Joan Mqnteith,and the Gumming faff?on a few days before. Immediatelythereafter they intercepted a meffenger with k-'ters fre,mGumming to king Edward, defiring that Bruce fnould bedifpatched in hafte, led being-a nobleman much favouredby the commons) he diottld raiie greater itirs. The treach¬ery of John Camming, before only fufpeffed, was herebymade mantfdl, which fo incenfed the Lord Bruce, that rid-S L it W I L. 1, 1 ^ M W "i -Li 1 i L. • 1 r^ to Du'nfries, and finding Cumniing at the aiafs of therey-Friers. aftet he had fhown him his letters, in rapa-ence, he {tabbed him with his dagger ; and others -whoere about him doing the like, not only difpatched him,nt alfo hisconfin Sir Edward Camming, and others who(lifted him. This {laughter fell out on the gth of Febru-rv, in the year 130S, as we now account.The Bruce, thus rid of one enemy, found a great nuni-er as it were ariiing out of his afhes, even the whole paii-inc name of C’nnining, with their allies, the earl of March,ae lord of Lorn, the lord of Ahernethy, the lord of Brech-i, the lord Soules, the mo(t part of the North, and alllalloway followed the Cummings : the earl of March, theord Willis u Soules commanded the Merfe, with Berwickmd the border ; all vv’iich they yielded to king Edward,md maintained again!l Robert Bruce. At the fame timelis two brothers, Thomas and Alexander Bruce, wuthRonald,Crawford younger, Rcretly landing ijj Gallovsay,were taken by Duncan Macdottgal a great maivin Gallo-w'ay, and fent to King Edward, who caufed them all threeto be liangcd. On the other fide, affecnWed tohim, befidethefe above named, the young lord James Douglas, (•vhohearing of his father’s death, had returned from France,where he was at fchool, and (laid a time with fcis kinlmaii,William Lamberton, biihop of St. Andrews,) earl Mal-com Lennox, ead John of Athol, (altlio’ of the Cinnrrungblood, yet being father in-lavy to Edward Bruce,) Sir NeilCampbell, Sir Gilbert Hay, Sir Chriftopher Seaton, SirThomas Ronald, Sir Hugh Hay, John Somerville, DavidBarclay, Alexander and Simon Frazer, Sir Robert Boyd,Sir William Halyburton, with fundry who had ftood withWallace before. With this company he paft into Scoon,and took upon him the crown of Scotland, in AprilAfter this he gathered an army, minding to befiege St.Johniloun. But finding his power too weak, he retired toMethven, where he was unexpcdfedly alTaulted and dif-co ntited by Sir Aymer de Vallance, but with final! lofs ofmen, except fome who were taken, as Randal Barclay,Frazer, Inchmartine. Somerville, and Sir Hugh Hay, whowere conftrained to fwear homage to king Edward Thecommons difeonraged with this hard fuccefs, fearing theEnglifh, forfook the new king ; who had a fmall compa¬ny of gentlcineii about’him, with whom he travelled to-wards Argyll, meaning to lurk for a tirr.e, with his brJlther in law, Sir Neil Campbell. but he was encountered bthe way, by John of Lorn, con fin to John ■Cumming anicooftrained to flee, albeit with fmr.ll /laughter of his ow,folk. After this fecond difeombture, he lent his Queen(being daughter to Gratney earl of Mar,) with his brotheSir Neil Bruce, and John earl of Athol, to the caftle of Kil-di immy, in Mar. The King of England fent Lis Ion, princtEdward with a mighty hoft, to befiege this caftle. The [Queen hearing this, fled to the frith of Tain in Rofs : butthe earl of ilofs took her, and her daughter and lent themcaptives into England. The caftle of Kildrimnay was trai-to'roufly burnt by one of the garhfon : all that were thereintaken and hanged, at the command of the Engiilh king.» Robert, feeing winter approaching, and finding no rertreat in the main land, retired'with his molt entire friends,,to his old friend Angus, lord of the ifles; with whom he:Rayed a (hort time in Kintyre, and Thereafter failed over, into the ifle of Raugbline, where he lurked all the winter';every maiffuppdfing him to be dead. The next fpring helanded quietly in Carrick, and on a hidden intercepted his-Own caftle of Furnberry. The Lord Piercy flying home outof it to his own country. Sir James Douglas departingthence fecretly, came into Douglas dale, and by means ofThomas Dickfon, an old fervant of his father’s, he recov¬ered his own callle of Douglas, a id call it down once andagain ; thereafter he returned to king Robert to Cumnock,(hewing him that Aymer de Vallance, and John of Lorn,with an army, were cominaagainft him. The King with500 valiant men kept themfelves in a ftrong place, waitingwhile Sir Aymer woulddnvade; but took no heed to Johnof Lorn, ho fetching a combafs, fet upon his back with800 highlandmen, and had well nigh inclofed them about.The king perceiving the daqge: , divided his men in three :and appointing where they fliould meet at night; fled threefundry ways, John of , orn having a floth-hound, purfu-ed ftill after the King, who putting away all that were inhis company, fave one man, fled into the next wood, and •with great difficulty efcaped the {loth-hound. Sir Aymer,difappainted of this enterprize, fhortly thereafter, with1500 chofen men, very near furprifed the King in'Clen-tole-wood : But the King with his men taking courage,reioluuly defended the place, which was very Itrong, andSIRWILLTAMWA L L A CE7 17^(killing divers of the iirft who affaulted them, the reft flediback. Therefore, with move courage, he went into the: aelds, reduced Kyle and Cunningham to his obedience, SirJames Douglas alfo, with 60 men lying in an ambufh at aiftrait place in Cunningham, called the Netberfovd ; wherei Sir Philip Moubray was palling, with 1000 men againft! the King, being then in Kyle, killed many of them and:put the reft to flight. On-May loth following, Sir Aymerwith 3000 men came againft the King, then lying in Gal-fton in Kyle : King Robert hearing of his coming, albeit heexceeded not 600 men, came foith againft him at a placetinder Loudon hill, which he fo fortified on every handwith dykes and foufies, that the enemy could not inclofehim on both Tides; and fo by the ftout andrefolute valourof fo few. Sir Aymer was put to flight, which he took fofore to heart that he retired into England, and gave overhis office of warden, or viceroy, John of Britain earl ofRichmond being fent into Scotland in his place.King- Robert after this paft info the north, leaving SirJames Douglas on the borders, who, taking his own caflleof Douglas by a ftratagem, razed it to the ground, and ina few' days chafed all the Englifh out of Douglas-dale Et-trick foreft, and Jedburgh foreft, and took Sir ThomasRandal the King’s Sifter’s fon, (who had followed theEnglifli ever ftnee his captivity,) and Sir Alexander Stew¬art of Bunkle. Sir Alexander and Simon Frazer, meetingking Robert in the north, fhtw'ed him, bow John Gum¬ming earl of Buchan, David lord Brechin, Sir John Mou¬bray, and the reft of the Gumming fadfion, were gather¬ing an army againft him. Mean while, by the affiftahce 'ofhis friends In tbefe quarters, on a, hidden he fiirpriz’d thecaftle of Invernefs, the fame of which victory caufed manyother ftrengths to yield : all which he overthrew and great¬ly increafed the number of his friends. In his return, tak-ing.ficknefs at Inverury, Gumming fet upon him. TheKing, after his friends had tor S time defended him, re¬covering fomewhat, went out to the field, and fo hardly af¬faulted his enemy at Old Meldrum, that albeit their num¬ber was far greater, yet they took their flight. With thelike fuccefs, he fet upon the King-, in Glenalk in /ingus,when-, being fliamefully put to flight, he fled into Eng-lan^, with Sir John Moubray, and died there fhoitly after.Lord David Brechin fortified his own caftle, but DavidTHE H I S T O R Y O Fearl of Athol, forced him to yield it and himfelf to the iKing. 'Mean time, Philip Frazer took the caftle of For-Tfar : and the King, purfuing this vi&ory, reduced all'the t.north to his obedience; and joining with the lord James 1.Douglas, icturning from the South with his two captives, lhe took St. Johnftoun by furprizal: from thence he paf-fed into Lorn, the Lord whereof had ambufhed two thou-fand men, on the fide of a fteep hill, where the King be¬hoved to enter through a narrow pafiage : but Sir James LDouglas, with Sir Alexander Frazer ; and Sir AndrewGray, climbing the hill, came faddenly on their backs, Land put them to flight. John of Lorn fled into Englandby fea: his father, Lord Alexander MhDougal, yielded Lhimfelf and the caftle of Dunftaffhage to the King.By thefe means, all on the north fide of Forth was re¬duced to obedience ; Sir Edward, his brother, in the mearr Itime, who by long and hard fightifig, had conquered Gal- |Joway, James Douglas, by a ftratagem, furpnfed the ftrong Icaftle of Roxburgh on the Faften’s even, while all the gar- ;rifon (after the cuftom of thi time) were feafting and play- ,1, ing the riot. The report whereof, fo whetted the valiant (Thomas Randal newly reftored to his uncle’s favour, and Jmade carl of Murray, that having befieged the caftle of E-qdinburgh for fome months, he fet ’himfelf by all means tocarry the fame, which be obtained by a narrow paflage upthrough the rock, difcovered by him ; by which he and Ifundry ftout gentlemen fecretly pafted up, and fcaling thewall, after long and dangerous fighting, made themfelvesmafters of the place. The garrifons of Rutherglen, La-ndik,'Dumfries, Air, Dundee, and Bute, hearing this,yielded up thefe caftles, which were all razed. The ifle ofMan, alfo returned to the obedience of the crown of Scot¬land. Sir Edward Bruce, having befieged Stirling caftlethree months, agreed with the captain, Sir*Philip Mou-brav, that if the king of England did not refcue him with¬in 12 months thereafter, the caftle fiiould be yielded toking Robert. Albeit this feemed a rafh provocation of fomighty a King as Edward Longfhanks ; (but far degener-ati from Lis valour,) having nor only England and Ireland,and many Engliflied Scots, with the duchy of Guienne,Bourdeaux, and other parts of France fubjeA to him, l utalfo the low countries ftriftly confederate ivith him : »yttking Robert prepared himfelf to encounter him in theIS I R w T L L I A M W A L LAC E. 19Ids, and gathered 35,000 men^few, bufcvaliant. Theng of England had above 100,coo foot, and fo^eoirfe: with which multitude, intending to deftroy the in-bitants of Scotland, and to divide the land to his follow-s, he came to Bannockburn, (two miles from Stirling,)here on June 21ft, 1314, he was encountered by the:ots, and after long and hard fighting, his great armytt to the rout; himfelf, with a fmallcompany, fleeing in-1 Dumbar, was fent by the Earl of March into England1 a filher-boat, leaving 200 noblemen and gentlemen kil-d by the Scots, and as many taken : the number of thern-.mons flain and taken was incredible. Of Scots wereain two gentlemen of note, Sir William Wepcnt, andir Walter Rofs, with 4000 common foldiers.After this victory, Stirling being yielded, and Dumbar-an gotten by compofition, the Earl of March, the lordloules, and Abernethy, and others of the Cummings’ al¬es, were reconciled to the king, who paft into the Ifles,nd brought them to obedience, taking John of Loraaptive, who died in prifon in Lochleven Thus Scotland.as freed of the bondage of England, except Berwick,vhich was recovered four years thereafter, 1318, and theScots making divers ineurfions into England, under theeading of Earl Thomas Randal, and James lord Douglas,•equited the harms received from them before, and en-iciied fhemfelves with their fpoil.As for the Authority of thefe two hiftories, altho’ theypofllbly err in fome circumflances of-time, place, and num¬ber, or names of men,- yet generally they write the truthof the ftory of thofe times, both at greater length, andupon more certain information, than thofe who have writ¬ten our Chronicles. So committing them to thy diligentsiperufal, (gentle and courteous reader,) I wi(h thee profitthereby, and all bappinefs from God. Farewel.A fhort Account of the Battle of Bannockburn,* which was fought, June 24th, 1314.EDWARD II. kept up the fame claim in Scotlandwhich his father had begun; and, after feveral unfiic*ccfsful attempts to eilablilh it, he refolved to make a greateffort, and at ones reduce that turbulent nation, which had|>ut fo many fignal affronts upon his father and himfelf.20 AN ACCOUNT OF THEIn the fpting, 1314, he affemWed the mod numerow rarmy that had ever croffed the borders, compofed of dit;ferent nations, and amounting to above 100,000 effcctivi'men, beiides, a huge multitude of attendants, who camt;along, in hopes of (haring in the plunder of a conquerei tenemy. At the head of thefe he marched northward witl -an uncommon parade, and in full confidence of victory iRobert Bruce, the fon jof that Robert Bruce who held ; S,conference with Wallace upon the banks of the Carron :and gratjdfon of him who had been co2r.petitor with Ba-liol, had, in 1306, been crowned king of Scotland, andibeing informed of Edward’s formidable preparations, hepraifed an. army of 30,000 of his fubjedts to oppofe him, <This armament bore but a fmall proportion to that of Ed¬ward’s ; but it was compofed of foldiers, who were hard¬ened by long pra&ice of war, and who now carried uponthe point of the fword, liberty and honour, and everything that was dear to them. With thefe Robert took uphis itation in the neighbourhood of Stirling, and waitedfor Edward’s arrival. The two armies came in fight ofeach other, in the month of June, and foon after, a bloodybattle was fought,'in which the Scots obtained a victory,the moft celebrated of any in the annals of that kingdom.The .procedure of that memorable event, was as follows. .The Englilh, marched from Edinburgh to Falkirk inone day, and upon the morrow, fetting out from thence-towards Stirling, encamped to the northward of the Tor-wood. About upper Bannockburn, and backward uponthe muir of Plean, in, the neighbourhood of the ancient:'Roman caufeway, pieces of broken pots, and other veffelshave been found; and upon rocks near the furface, marksof fire have been difeovered, where it is fuppofed the fol-diers had made ready their proyifions. Barbour, the au¬thor of king Robert Bruce’s life, (peaks as if their camphad ftretched fo far northward, as to occupy a part of tireCarle ground; and fo vaft a multitude mud doubtlefs havecovered a large tradt of country.• The Scottiih army was ported about a mile to the north¬ward, upon feveral eminences, fputh from the prelent vil¬lage of St. iNinians. Upon the fumtuit of one of thele e-minences, now called Brock’s Bare, is a ftone funk intothe earth, with a round hole in it. near three inches indiameter, and much the fame in depth in which, accord-BATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN. 21to tradition, King Robert’s ftandar'd was fixed, the>31 tent having been ere&ed near it. This ftone is wellown in that neighbourhood by the name of the Bore-ane. The fmaii river of Bannockburn, remarkable forfteep and rugged banks, ran in a narrow valley between»two carnpsThe cattle of Stirling was ftill in the hands of the Eng-1, Edward Bruce, the King’s brother, had in the fpringthis year, laid liege to it, but found himfelf obliged toandon the euterprile ; only by a treaty between thatnice and Moubray, the governor, it was agreed, thatthe garrifon received no relief from England before atar expired, they Ihould furrender to the Scots. They preceding the battle, a (trong body of cavalry, to theImber of Soo, was detached from th<? Engliih camp,dcr the conduft of lord Clifford, to the relief of thatrrifon. Thefe, having marched'through fome hollowounds upon the edge of the Carfe, had pafied the Scotsmy before they were obferved. Th’e King himfelf wase firfi tjiat perceived them, and defiring Thomas Ran-Iph, earl of Murray, to look towards the place whereey were, told him, that a rofe had fallen from his chap-Randolph, conlidcring this as a reproach, becaufe heid the charge of that part, through which the Engliihid marched, immediately fct out after them with a par-of 500 horfe, and coming up with them, in the plainhere the fmall village of New-houfe now {lands, a fharplion enfued, in fight of both armies, and of the garrifonStirling. It was fought with valour on both fides: andwaafome time doubtful where victory would turn. Kingobert, attended by fome of his officers, beheld the en-untcr from a rifing ground, fuppofed to be the round11 immediately upon the weft of St. Ninians, now calledock (hot-hill, Sir James Douglas, perceiving the dillrefsRandolph, who was greatly inferior to the enemy inluBers, aiked leave to go to his fupport. This Kingobert at firfl refufed, but afterwards confenting, Doug- •s put his foldiers in motion ; obferving, however, as heas on the way, that the viftory was upon the point ofreturned to the camp amidft acclamations of22 AN ACCOUNT QF THEuniverfal joy. To perpetuate^he memory of this viftofnitwo Hones were reared up in the field, and are ftiii to !•feen there. They Hand, in a fpot which has lately bee iinclofed for a garden at the north end of the village uNewhoufe, and about a quarter of a mile, from the Bo »ough-port of Stirling.This victory gave new fpirits to the whole army, an .1made them fo eager for the general engagement, that th inight, tho’ among the fhorteft of the year, feemed Ionto them. Edward too, exasperated at the defeat of hidetachment, was determined to bripg on the battle on thmorrow'. At length appeared the dawn of that importarday, which was to decide, whether Scotland was henceforth to be an independent kingdom, or fubject to a foreign yoke. Early all was in motion in both armies : religious fentiments were mingled with the military ardour cthe Scots; a folemn mafs, in the manner of thefe timeswas faid by the Abbot of Inchaffery, a monaftary iStrathearn, who alfo adminiftred the facrament to thKing and the great officers about him, while inferior prieddid the fame to the reft of the army. After tin’s the;formed in order of battle, in a track of ground calleiNether-Touchadam, which lies along the declivity ofgently riling hill. This fituation had been previoufly chcfen becaufe of its advantages:* Upon the right they hadrange of Iteep rocks, now called Murray’s Craig, and itheir front, were fteep banks of the rivulet 6f Bannockburn. Not far behind them was a wood; fome veftigesowhich Hill remain. Upon the left was a rnorafs, now called Milton-bog, from its vicinity to a fmall village of thaname : much of this bog is Hill undrained, and a part 0it is at prefent a mill dam. As it was then the middle ofummer, it was almoft quite dry. But King Robert ha.recourfe to a ftratagem, in order to prevent any at taelfrom that quarter. Be had ordered many ditches and pit:to be digged in the morafs, and Hakes, iharpened at botlends, to be driven into them, and the whole to be covered over again with green turf, fo that the-ground had Hi!the appearance of being firm. He alfo caufed crow-feetor (harp pointed irons to be fcattered throughout the merafs : fome of them have been found there in the memorof people Hill living ; the fame manoeuvres were likewificarried on for a little way along the front of the left wing;B ATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN. 23or there the banks, for about two hundred yards, beingnore fiat than they are any -where elfe, it was the onlydace where the enemy could psfs the river in any fort of)rdcr. By means of thefe artificial improvements, join-id to the natural ftrength of the ground, the Scotch ar-ny flood as within an entrenchment, and the invifible pitatad ditches anfwered the concealed batteries of more mo-lern times.Amongfl the other occurences ef this memorable day,liflorians mention an accident of a lingular nature. Ashe two armies were about to engage. The Abbot of Inch-Irfiery polling himfelf before the Scots, with a crucifix inmis hand, they all fell down upon their knees in the aft(bf devotion. The enemy obferving them in fo uncom-pon a poflure, concluded that they were frighted intoliTubmifiion, and that, by kneeling, wheolthey fhould beready to fight, they meant to furrender at diferetion, andonly to beg their lives; but they were foon undeceived,when they faw them rife again, and (land to tjieir armswith Heady countenances.Tire Etrglilh began the aftion, by a briflc charge uponthe left wing of the Scots commanded by Randolph, nearthe fpot, where the bridge is now thrown over the river,at the fmall village of Charter’s hall. Hereabout was theonly place where the river could be croffed in any order.A large body of cavalry advanced to attack him in front,while another fetched a compafs to fall upon his flank andrear, but before they could come to clofe engagement,they fell into the fnare that had been laid for them. Ma¬ny of their horfes \yere foon difabled, by the fharp ironsruibing into their feet, others tumbled into the conceal¬ed pits, and could not difentangle themfelves. Pieces oftheir harneffing, with bits of broken fpears, and other ar¬mour, Hill continue to be deg up in the bog.In the beginning of the engagement, an incident hap¬pened, which, though in itfelf of fmall moment, was ren¬dered important by its confequences. King Robert wasmounted on horfeback, carrying a battle-ax in his hand,and upon his helmet, he wore a high turban in the formI of a crown, by way of diftinftibn. This, together withhis activity, rendered him very confpicuous as he rode be¬fore '.he lilies. An Englifh Knight, named Bohun, whowas ranked among the bravell in king Edward’s armv.24 AN ACCOUNT OF THE, Sec.came galloping furioufly up to him, in order to engagewith him in tingle combat, expedling, by fo eminent araft of chivalry, at once to put an end to the conteft, ancgain immortal renown to himfelf; but the enterprizinj.champion, having miffed the firft blow, was immediateljitruck dead with the battle-ax which the King carried iihis hand. This was a fort of a fignal for the charge. S<bold an attack upon their King filled the Scots with fen-iiments of revenge; and the heroic archievement perform- jed by him before their eyes, raifed their fpirits to the high-1eft pitch. They ruflied furionfly upon the enemy, who, ihaving by this time paffed the river in great numbers,gave them a warm reception.A Angular occurence, which fome accounts reprefent ias an accidental faily of patriotic enthufiafm, others as apre-meditated ik-atagem of King Robert, fuddenly alteredthe face of affairs, and contributed greatly to the viftory :All the fervants and attendants of the Scottilh army, who*are faid to have amounted to zo,oco, had been orderedbefore the battle, to retire behind Murray’s craig. Buthaving, during the engagement, arranged themfelves in amartial form^ they marched to the top of the hill, and dif-playing white fheets fixed upon poles, inilead of banners,moved towards the field of battle, with hideous fhouts.The Englifh, perceiving this motely crowd, and takingthem for a frefh reinforcement, advancing to fupport theScots, were feized with a great pannic, that they began togive way in confufion. Buchanan fays, that the King ofEngland was the firft who fled ; but in this he contradiftsall other hirtorians, who affirm, that he was among thelaft in the field. The Scots purfued, and great was the(laughter among the enemy,.efpecially in palling the ri¬ver, where they could keep no order, becaufe of the ir¬regularity of the ground. King Edward himfelf efcapedwith much difficulty, bt^ng clofely purfued above fortymiles by Sir James Douglas, with a party of-light horfe;he was upon the point of being taken prifoner, when he |was received into the caftle of Duribar, by the Earl ofMarch, who conveyed him to England by fea in a fifher’sboat: His immenfe army being entirely difeomfited. TheScots only loft 4000 men, while the lofs of the Engliftaamounted to above 30,000.F INIS,  J