1[No. H:HE HISTORYTBE mAXTWITHTHE IRON MASK;TOOKTHER WITHTHE LIFEOF THEBLOODY ROBESPIERRE.■GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.Liu oi^rrrKB< tr VK|»k. ■: ■ : n ■XHE !B OM M73K >THEMAN WITH THE IRON MASK.This remarkable person existed as a stateprisoner in France during the latter part ofthe 17th century. The circumstances ofthis person form a historical senigma, whichhas occasioned much inquiry and many con¬jectures. The authenticated particulars con¬cerning the Iron Mask are as follows :—Afew months after the death of Cardinal Maza-rin, there arrived at the isle of Sainte Mar¬guerite, in the sea of Provence, a young pri¬soner, whose appearance was peculiarly attract¬ing : his p< rson was above the middle size, andelegantly formed; his mien and deportmentwere noble, and Ins manners graceful; andeven the sound of his voice had in it somethinguncommonly interesting. On the road, he con¬stantly wore a mask made with iron springs,to enable him to eat without taking it off. Itwas at first believed that this mask was madeentirely of iron ; whence he acquired the titleof (he Man with the Iron Mask. His attendantshad received orders to dispatch him if heattempted to take off his mask, or discoverhimself. H e had been first confined at Pignerol,under the care of the governor M. de St Mars ;and upon being sent thence to St Marguerite,he was accompanied thither by the same per¬son, who continued to have the charge of himHe was always treated with the utmost respectbe was served constantly in pate; ami the4THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.governor himself placed his dishes on the table,retiring immediately after, and locking the doorbehind him. He tu-to'-yoit (thced and fhon'd)the governor ; who, on the other hand, behav¬ed to him in the mo t respectful manner, andnever wore his hat before him, nor ever satdown in his presence without being desired.The Marquis of Louvoisis, who went to seehim at St Marguerite, spoke to him standing,and with that kind of attention which denoteshigh respect. During his residence here, heattempted twice, in an indirect manner, tomake himself known. One day, he wrote some¬thing with his knife on a plate, and threw itout of his window towards a boat that wasdrawn on shore near the foot of the tower. Afisherman picked it up, and carried it to tlsegovernor. M. de St Mars was alarmed at thesight; and asked the man, with great anxiety,whether he could read, and whether any oneelse had seen the plate ? The man answeredthat he could not read ; that he had but justfound the plate ; and that no one else had seenit. He was, however, confined tiil the gover¬nor was well assured of the truth of his asser¬tions. Another attempt to discover himselfproved equally unsuccessful. A young man, who*lived in the isle, one day perceived somethingfloating under the prisoner’s window ; and onpicking it up, he discovered it to be a very fineshirt written all over. He carried it imme¬diately to the governor ; who, having looked atsome parts of the writing, asked the lad, withsome appearance of anxiety, if he had r ■ ’ adthe curiosity to read it? He protested repeat¬edly that he had not; but two days afterwardshe was found dead in his bed. The Mask deTHE MA.N WITH THE IRON MASK.5Fer, or Man with the Iron Mask, remained inthis isle till 1698, when M. do St Mars, beingpromoted to the government of the Bastilo,conducteiUiis prisoner to that fortress. In hisway thither, he stopt with him at his estatenear Palteau. The Mask arrived there in alitter, surrounded by a numerous guard onhorseback. M. de St Mars eat at the sametable with him all the time they resided at Pal-teau ; but the latter was always placed withhis back towards the windows ; and the pea¬sants, who came to pay their compliments totheir master, and whom curiosity kept con¬stantly on the watch, observed that M. de StMars always sat opposite to him, with two pis¬tols by the side of his plate. They were waitedon by one servant only, who brought in andcarried out the dishes, always carefully shut¬ting the door both in going out and returning.The prisoner was always masked, even whenhe passed through the court; but the peoplei saw his teeth and lips, and observed that hishair was grey. The governor slept in the same! room with him, in a second bed that was placedin it on that occasion. In the course of theirjourney, the Mask was one day heard to askI his keeper whether the king had any design: on his life ? “ No, prince,” he replied ; “ pro-i vided that you quietly allow yourself to be con-: ducted, your life is perfectly secure.” Thei stranger was accommodated ns well as it was| possible to be in the Bastile. An apartmentI had been prepared for him by order of thei governor before his arrival, fitted up in the most3 convenient stylo ; and everything he expressed1 a desire for was instantly procured him. Hisi table was the best that could be provided; and6 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.he was supplied with as rich clothes as he de¬sired ; but his chief taste in this last particu¬lar was for lace, and for linen remarkably fine.He was allowed the use of such books as hedesired, and ho spent much of his time in read¬ing He also amused himself with playing up¬on the guitar. He had the liberty of going tomass ; but was then strictly forbid to speak oruncoVer his face : orders were even given tothe soldiers to fire upon him if he attempt¬ed to do either ; and their pieces wrere alwayspointed towards him as he passed through thecourt- When he had occasion to see a sur¬geon or a physician, he was obliged, under painof death, constantly to wear his mask. Anold physician of the Uastile, who had often at¬tended him when he was indisposed, said, thathe never saw his face, though he had frequentlyexamined his tongue and different parts of hisbody; and that he never complained of hisconfinement, nor let fall any hint by which itmight be guessed who he was He often passedthe night in walking up and down his room.This unfortunate prince died on the 19th No¬vember 1703, after a short illness; and was in¬terred next day in the burying-place of theparish of St Paul. The expense of his funeralamounted only to 40 livres. The name givenhim was Marchiali: and even his age, a* wellas his real name, it seemed of importance toconceal; for, in the register made of his fune¬ral, it was mentioned that he was about 40years old ; though ho had told his apothecary,some time before his death, that he thoughthe must be 60. Immediately after his death,his apparel, linen, clothes, mattresses, and, inshort, every thing that had been used by him,THE M.\:; WITH THE IRON MASK. 7were burnt; the walls of his room were scraped;the floor taken up, evidently from the appre¬hension that he might have found means ofwriting any thing th;:t would have discoveredwho he was. Nay, such was the fear of hishaving left a letter, or any mark which mightlead to a discovery, that his plate was melteddown ; the glass was taken out of the windowof his room and pounded to dust; the window-frame and doors burnt ; and the ceiling of theroom, and the plaster of the inside of the chim¬ney, taken down. Several persons have af¬firmed that the body was buried without ahead ; and M. de St Foix informs us in hisEssais Historiques, that “ a gentleman, havingbribed the sexton, had the body taken up inthe night, and found a stone instead of thehead.” The natural inference from these ex¬traordinary accounts, is, that the Iron Maskwas not only a person of high birth, but musthave been of great consequence ; and that hisbeing concealed was of the utmost importanceto the king and ministry. Among the variousconjectures that have been formed concerningthe real name and condition of this remarkablepersonage, none appear to have any probabi¬lity except the following That he was a sonof Anne of Austria, queen to Louis XIIL,and, consequently, that he was a brother ofLouis XIV.; but whether a bastard brother,a brother-german, or a half-brother, is aquestion that has given rise to three seve¬ral opinions, viz., 1. That the queen provedwith child at a time when it was evident iti could not have been by her husband, who, fort some months before, had never been with heri in private. The supposed father of this child8 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.is said to have been the Duke of Buckingham, lwho came to France, in May 1625, to conduct ■the Princess Henrietta, wife of Charles L, to iEngland. The private letters and memoirs of |those times speak very suspiciously of the queenand Buckingham : his behaviour at Amiens, jwhither the queen and queen-mother accom- .panied the princess in her way to Boulogne, joccasioned much whispering; and it appearsthat the king, on this occasion, was extremelyoffended at her, and that it required all the in-fluenceand address of the queen-mother to effecta reconciliation. It is said that this child wasprivately brought up in the country ; that whenMazarin became a favourite, he was intrusted Iwith the care of him; and that Louis XIV.,having discovered the secret on the death of the .cardinal, thought it necessary to confine him inthe manner above related. 2. The second, andthe most probable opinion, is, that he was thetwin-brother of Louis XIV , born some hoursafter him. This first appeared in a short .anonymous work published without date, orname of place, or printer. It is therein said,—“Louis XIV. was born at St Germains on Layoon the 5th September 1638, about noon ; andthe illustrious prisoner, known by the appella¬tion of the Iron Mash, was born the same day,while Louis XIII. was at supper. The kingand the cardinal, fearing that the pretensionsof a twin-brother might one day be employedto renew those civil wars with which Francehad been so often afflicted, cautiously con¬cealed his birth, and sent him away to bebrought up privately.” This opinion was con¬firmed in a work called Memoires de Marechal])uc de Richlicu, written by the Abbe Soulavio;THE MAN WITH THE IKON MASK.9♦in which it is asserted that “ the birth of theprisoner happened in the evening of the 5thSeptember 1638, in presence of the chancellor,the bishop of Meaux, the author of the MS., amidwife named Peronete, and a sieur Honorat.This circumstance greatly'disturbed the king’smind : he observed, that the Saliquo law hadmade no provision for such a case. By theadvice of Cardinal Itichlieu, it was thereforeresolved to conceal his birth, but to preservehis life, in case, by the death of his brother, itshould be necessary to avow him. A declara¬tion was drawn up, and signed and sworn toby all present, in which every circumstancewas mentioned, and several marks on his bodydescribed. This document, being sealed by thechancellor with the royal seal, was delivered tothe king; and all took an oath never to speakon the subject, not even in private and amongthemselves. The child was delivered to thecare of Madame Peronete, to be under thedirection of Cardinal Richlieu, at whose deaththe charge devolved to Cardinal Mazarin.Mazarin appointed the author of the MS. hisgovernor, and intrusted to him the care of hiseducation. But as the prisoner was extremelyattached to Madame Peronete, and she equallyso to him, she remained with him till her death.His governor carried him to his house in Bur¬gundy, where he paid the greatest attention tohis education. As the prisoner grew up, hebecame impatient to discover his birth, andoften importuned his governor on that subject.His curiosity had been roused by observingthat messengers from the court frequently ar¬rived at the house ; and a box, containing let¬ters from the queen and the cardinal, having0 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.>ne day been inadvertently left out, he openedit, and saw enough to guess at the secret.From that time he became thoughtful andmelancholy, ‘ which (says the author) I couldnot then account for. He shortly after askedme to get him a portrait of the late and pre¬sent king; but I put him off by saying that Icould not procure any that were good. Hethen desired me to let him go to Dijon ; whichI have known since was with an intention ofseeing a portrait of the king there, and ofgoing secretly to St John de Lus, where thecourt then was on occasion of the marriagewith the Infanta. He was beautiful ; andlove helped him to accomplish his wishes. Hehad captivated the affections of a young house¬keeper, who procured him a portrait of theking. It might have served for either of thebrothers ; and the discovery put him into soviolent a passion, that he immediately came tome with the portrait in his hand, saying, Voilarnon frere, et voila qui je suis, shewing me, at thesame time, a letter of the Cardinal de Mazarin,that he had taken out of the box ’ Upon thisdiscovery, his governor immediately sent anexpress to court to communicate what had hap¬pened, and to desire new instructions; the con¬sequence of which was, that the governor andthe young prince under his care were arrestedand confined.'” The author of this memoirconcludes,—“ I have suffered with him in ourcommon prison : I am now summoned to ap¬pear before my Judge on high; and for thepeace of my soul I cannot but make this de¬claration, which may point out to him themeans of freeing himself from his present igno¬minious situation, in case the king, his brother,THE MAN WITH THE IKON MASK. 11should die without children. Can an extortedoath compel me to observe secrecy on a thingso incredible, but which ought to be left on re¬cord to posterity V' 3. The third opinion is,that he was a son of the queen by CardinalMazarin, born about a year after the death ofher husband, Louis XIII.; that he was broughtup secretly; and that, soon after the death ofthe cardinal on the 9th March 1661, he wassent to Pignerol. To this account, FatherGriffet justly objects, “ that it was needless tomask a face that was unknown ; and, therefore,that this opinion does not merit discussion.”Indeed, it seems totally unaccountable that somuch care should have been taken to conceala child of the queen by the cardinal, who,whether they were privately married or not,could never have had the most distant claimto the crown of France. The conjectures ad¬vanced by other authors, that he was the Dukeof Monmouth, the Count of Vermandois, orthe Duke of Beaufort, &c., are still more im¬probable.THE LIFEOFTHU BLOODY ROBESPIERRE.Thk very name of Robsiifierre excites a varietyof disagreeable sensations,—wonder, rage, hor¬ror, and revenge, occupy the bosom by turns.Of his countrymen, some claim a murderedparent, others their mangled sons and daugh¬ters; the husband his bleeding wife ; the wifeher decollated husband. France, converted intoa charnel-house under his administration, be¬held more than an hundred thousand of herchildren proscribed, starved, expatriated, as¬sassinated, and cut off, either with or withoutthe forms of law ! The patriot and the perfi¬dious citizen,'the republican and the royalist,the anarchist and the lover of order,—allequally experienced his hatred, and perishedby his deadly enmity. Never did Liberty suffermore than by his hypocritical attachment;never did despotism receive so much consola¬tion as arose from his cruelties. Tyrannybrandished her whips, and shook her chains,from Moscow to Algiers; and boasted, with aperfidious triumph, her milder empire !Maximilian Robespierre was born, in 1759,within the walls of the city of Arras, thecapital of the ci-devant province of Artois. Theroyalists, as if fiction had been necessary torender his memory more detestable, pretendLIFE OP ROBESP1ERKE.13that he was the nephew of that Damiens whoassassinated Louis XV. It is but justice, onthe contrary, to state, tiiat his family was bothancient and respectable; for his progenitorshad occupied some of the higher departmentsof the magistracy, and appertained to that classformerly termed, by way of eminence, la noblessede la robe. His father was an advocate of greatknowledge and purity ; but, as economy wasnot among his virtues, his two sons and adaughter inherited nothing from him but hispoverty. His unsullied reputation, however,proved serviceable to his family ; for a relationundertook the maintenance of the female, andthe two boys had the good fortune to be protect¬ed, or rather adopted, by the Bishop of Arras.Maximilian, the elder brother, was, accord¬ingly, educated under the immediate inspectionof this prelate, who, doubtless, instilled excel¬lent principles into his mind ; but malice, al¬ways active and always uncharitable, has tracedto this very source that consummate hypocrisywhich distinguished his pupil through life, andwhich, it is pretended, he could have only ac¬quired under the tuition of a priest!At a proper age, young Robespierre wassent to the college of Louis le Grand, a famousseminary, formerly under the direction of theJesuits. There ho distinguished himself by hisassiduity and talents, and bore away the annualprizes from all competitors of his own class.This—and it must be allowed to have been avery honourable one— was the only distinguish¬ing characteristic of his youl h ; for it is allowedthat he did not develope even the germ of thosepassions which influenced his bosom in his moreadvanced years, and rendered him not only theLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.14scourge of his country, but of mankin d. Pas¬chal, amidst the silence of his prison, meditatedon Euclid ; and Voltaire chalked the first linesof his Hcnriado on the walls of his dungeon;hut Robespierre did not discover his futuredestiny by anticipation ; and it was the opinionof the professors, that his reputation wouldnever extend beyond the walls of the college inwhich he had been educated.At the age of seventeen, it was determinedthat he should be bred to the bar; and hisfriends, judging from his early success, alreadyimagined that he would dispute the palm ofeloquence with the first lawyers of France. Hewas, accordingly, committed to the care of aM. Ferrieres, nephew to an advocate of thesame name, who had distinguished himself byan excellent Treatise on Jurisprudence.It is asserted, however, that, notwithstand¬ing the repeated admonitions of that gentleman,Maximilian could never be prevailed upon topay any degree of attention to his professionalstudies. Incapable of application, disgustedwith the slightest difficulties, he is said to haveacquired an antipathy to knowledge, and tohave sworn a deadly enmity both to learningand learned men !It was at first determined that he shouldpractise before the Parliament of Paris, butthis scheme was never earned into execution;for he returned to his native province, and wasadmitted an advocate in the Superior Councilof Artois.We do not find that he distinguished himselfthere by his eloquence ; and have every reasonto suppose that he would never h ive risen abovemediocrity, nor been noticed in the crowd ofLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.15provincial pleaders, had not an uncommon oocurrence of circumstances elevated him to asituation in which the eyes of all Europe werefixed upon him. He, however, made himselfknown as an author, if not as an advocate ;for he published two treatises about this time,in one of which he explained the principles ofElectricity, and removed the vulgar prejudicesthat prevailed respecting conductors, the erec¬tion of which was opposed by the ignorant,under the pretence that they were impious, andbetter calculated to produce destruction thanensure safety.The other was on Death considered as apunishment. In this, all the modern govern¬ments were justly reproached for the sanguin¬ary laws still prevalent in their criminal codes,and doubts were hinted as to the right claimedby society of cutting off the life of an individual.No sooner had the letters of convocation tothe States-General been issued, than Robes¬pierre determined to become a candidate. Heproved successful in his endeavours ; and was,accordingly, nominatfl^one of the representa¬tives of his native province. He is said to havedrawn up the cahiers, or instructions ; by meansof which the electors were accustomed to regu¬late the conduct of their deputies.In the National Assembly, he sat and votedwith the cote gauche, or patriotic side ; and wassometimes confounded with the Orleanists, andsometimes with the Constitutionels. The for¬mer wished to place Philip on the throne ofLouis ; the latter were zealous for the adoptionof the English constitution. It is no less truet than singular, however that Robespierre re-• mained in the greatest obscurity during the16LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.first Legislature ; and was considered as a pas¬sionate, hot-headed young man, whose chiefmerit consisted in his being warmly and sin¬cerely attached to the cause of liberty. It washe who first brought the term Aristocrat intocommon use. This occurred on Thursday,Nov. 19, 1790 ; when a deputation from a cor¬poration in the Cambresis having complainedat the bar of some abuses, the deputy for Arrasascended the tribune, and exclaimed, that thepetitioners deserved no favour, being them¬selves (un corps aristocratiquo) an aristocraticalbody. The Assembly burst into a fit of laughteron the mention of this word : it, however, soonproduced !ar different sensations !It was about this time that he became theeditor of a journal entitled L'Union, ou Journalde la Liberie. The royalists, who accuse him ofgross ignorance, enumerate, with exultation,the geographical, political, and even gramma¬tical blunders daily exhibited in this newspa¬per. It is allowed by every one that it wasconducted with extrema^iolence, and displayedbut little taste or genius. Indeed, the exag¬gerating disposition of the editor had broughthim into some degree of contempt; and it wasat that time customary to remark, with a kindof satirical eulogium—que Mirabcau etoit leflam¬beau de la Provence, and Robespierre la chandelled'Arras !—that Mirabeau was the flambeau ofProvence, and Robespierre the candle of Arras!This much is certain, that he never was electedinto any of the committees, or honoured withthe president’s chair in the first Assembly.To the Society of the Jacobins, Robespierreis indebted for all his celebrity and all hispower. He became their chief; and it was theLIFE OF KOBESPIEEP.E.17members of this body who first propagated theidea, “that the Assembly had ruined France,and Robespierre could alone save it!”It is but candid here to confess that his con¬duct in the Legislative Body was pure and un¬spotted ; that he stedfastly opposed the inte¬rested revision of the constitution, and with¬stood every temptation arising from the cor¬ruption so prodigally administered by the court.Alas ! this very circumstance, in the end, ren¬dered him more dangerous to Liberty, and thesurname of Incorruptible enabled him to sacri¬fice all his real or supposed enemies to hisvengeance.Robespierre did not refuse to fill subordi¬nate offices, as has been asserted : he, however,did not retain them any considerable time. Hewas first nominated President of the Tribunalof the district of Versailles ; and was, conse¬quently, empowered to decide both in civil andcriminal affairs, as the juries had not been thenorganized. Having resigned this employment,he next obtained that of Accusateur-Public tothe Criminal Tribunal of the department ofParis, which he also held but for a short period.His conduct in the exercise of these functionsstands unimpeached: no one instance of crueltyor injustice has been adduced by the bitterestof his enemies ; and had the court but provedfaithful to that constitution, from which it couldnot recede without the foulest perjury. Robes¬pierre would never h .ve been elevated to thedictatorship !It was during the National Convention thatthis man attained the summit of his ambition.In the first Legislature he had joined thepatriots, in the second he declared for the re-I.IFE OF ROBESPIERRE.18publicans: in both, his party had proved victo¬rious. It was in the third that he himself wasdoomed to triumph, not only over his rivals,but his country.The Commune of Paris, the Jacobin Society,and even the Assembly itself, were filled withhis creatures, and became obedient to his com¬mands. In short, the nation looked up to himas to a saviour.No sooner, however, had he attained thegiddy eminence of power, than his natureseems to have experienced a total change; andRobespierre, like many others, here affords amemorable instance of the effects of suddenelevation in debasing the human mind, bymaking it ferocious. Rendered cruel by habitand suspicion, both royalists and republicansequally experienced his vengeance; a numberof the first were cruelly butchered in prison;and of the latter, Brissot, Vergniaux,Gensonne,Valaze, &c., &c., fell by the guillotine; whilethe ex-minister Roland, and the celebratedex-secretary Condorcet, were reduced to themelancholy necessity of putting themselves todeath. In the Girondists perished nearly allthat was great and amiable in France; inMadame Roland fell the first female genius ofher age; in the’person of her husband, virtueitself was outraged ; while, in the executionsof Condorcet, Lavoisier, and Bailly, sciencereceived a mortal and irrecoverable stab.The proscriptions of Sylla and Marius wereonce more renewed in the most polished countryof modern Europe, and in an age, too, boastfulof its studied refinements. Suspected persons,or, in other words, every one either dreaded orhated by those in power, were arrested ; domi-MFE OF ROBF.SPIERF.F..19ciliary visits awakened the sleeping victims ofpersecution to misery and destruction ; whilerevolutionary tribunals condemned them byscores, unpitied, and even unheard. The lawswere no longer maintained ; the idea of a con¬stitution became ^intolerable ; ail power wasconcentrated, as among the eastern nations ;the government degenerated into a TurkishDivan : it was the Committee of Public Safetythat regulated every thing, that absolved ortried, that spoiled or enriched, that murderedor saved ; and this committee was entirely re¬gulated by the will of Robespierre, who go¬verned it by the means of his creatures, St Justand Couthon.He reserved for himself, however, the imme¬diate superintendence of the revolutionary tribu-n«fe,and vasaccustomed,at night,to mark downthe victims who were to perish before the set¬ting of the morrow’s sun.The execution of four or five a-day did notsatiate his vengeance ; the murder of thirty orforty was demanded, and obtained : the streetsbecame deluged with blood ; canals were ne¬cessary to convey it to the Seine; and experi¬ments were actually made at the Bicetro withan instrument for cutting off half a score headsat a single motion !Amidst this accumulation, however, of seem¬ingly irresistible authority, Robespierre was onthe brink of ruin. The whole of the old Gi¬rondist party was indeed subdued and silent;but many members of the Convention still re¬mained attached to it. The party of theMountain, by means of whom Robespierre hadrisen to power, found themselves not only dis¬regarded, but ready at every instant to fall aLIFE OF ROliESPlERRE.20sacrifice to that system of terror which theyhad contributed to erect. Even the Jacobinsthemselves, though neither timid nor cautiousin the shedding of blood, began to murmurwhen th 'y saw that awful privilege confinedwithin a few hands, or rather monopolized byan individual.In this state, things remained for some time ;and it appeared how possible it is for an in¬dividual to govern a great nation even whilethe whole of that nation is hostile to his power.One circumstance tended much to acceleratethe fall of Robespierre. He had procured adecree to be passed, authorizing the Committeeof Public Safety to imprison at its pleasure, andbring to trial, any member of the Convention.All the individuals of that body found them¬selves placed by this decree in the power of aman whose severe and suspicious temper theywell knew. Still, however, they were so muchsurrounded by spies, that it was difficult toform a party or plan of operations; even themajority of the Committee of Public Safety wereamong the number of the discontented, butthey dared not to withstand their chief At last,on the 25th of July 1795, the Convention be¬gan to exhibit signs of agitation. It was un¬derstood, that, in the course of a few days,Robespierre would sacrifice a number of themembers to his suspicionsOn the 26th, the sitting of the Conventionwas still more tempestuous. In a long speech,Robespierre defended his own conduct againstthose who accused him of aspiring to the dic¬tatorship. He attacked the party styledModerates, as wishing to overturn the revolu¬tionary government, and to restore the feebleLIFE OF HOBE8PIEKRE21system of the Brissotines. The result of along debate was, that Robespierre was appa¬rently victorious, and his speech was orderedto be printed. But, on the 27th, the Conven¬tion appeared ripe for a change: St Just, amember of the Committee of Public Safety, inattempting to defend Robespierre, was repeat¬edly interrupted ; and Billaud Varennes enume¬rated the crimes, and proclaimed the tyranny,of Robespierre. The speech was received withbursts of applause. Robespierre in vain at¬tempted to defend himself; he was silencedby shouts of execration from every part ofthe hall. Tallien seconded the former speakerin his accusation. The sitting was declaredpermanent, and a decree of arrest was passedagainst Robespierre and his younger brother,along with St Just, Couthon, and Lebas.These men left the Convention, and found secu¬rity in the hall of the Commune of Paris ; wherethe municipal officers agreed to protect andstand by them. The tocsin was sounded ; thearmed force was under their command ; an in¬surrection was therefore attempted against theConvention : but the sections of Paris refusedtheir support. Very few of the troops couldbe collected, and these were not firm ; the latetyranny had become odious. The hall of theCommune was therefore speedily surrendered ;and about three o’clock a m. of the 28th, Robes¬pierre and Ids associates were made prisoners.They had been outlawed by the Convention,on account of their resistance.On the morning of the 10th Thermidor, (July28, 1704,) he was led to execution, amidst theexecrations of the people, with one eye hangingout of the socket, and his lower jaw attached22LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.to the upper by means of a handkerchief. Ithad been separated by a musket-ball.Thus perished Maximilian Robespierre, inthe thirty-fifth year of his age. His characterdoes not possess the least resemblance to anyof the illustrious ruffians of antiquity, who havebeen rendered memorable either by their crimesor their exploits. Sylla and Marius, bred upto arms, and inured to warfare, were both braveto excess. Julius, before he crossed the Rubi¬con, and became the tyrant of his country, haddisplayed uncommon personal courage on manyoccasions. Even the luxurious Antony, andthe vile Augustus—the latter of whom it hasbeen too long the fashion to praise—were attimes capable of exhibiting instances of intre¬pidity. Cataline, in the very hour of his death,was terrible ; for his mutilated corpse was sur¬rounded by heaps that had perished by his ownhand. But Robespierre was a base coward,who, on all occasions, was solicitous for his ownsafety, and trembled like a woman at the veryidea of danger. He was bold only in wordsand gestures.On the 10th of August he hid himself asusual, and only came out of his lurking hole toclaim the triumphs of that memorable day.Even on the 1st, 2d, and Sd of September, heis said to have been concealed, until he couldsafely reap all the advantages of the barbarousmurders committed by his paitizans.The person of Robespierre was below themiddle size ; the temperament of his body wasnervous and irritable; and he had somethinghideous in his aspect, which was greatly in¬creased by means of a pair of green spectacles.This acquired him the appellation of the Dragon'LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE. 23that of the Basilisk would, perhaps, have beenmore appropriate.He affected to be called a Sans-Culotte ; buthis clothes were always chosen with taste; andhis hair was constantly dressed and powdered,with a precision that bordered on foppery. Hewas but an indifferent orator; for his person,voice, and provincial accent, militated againstthe grand characteristics of eloquence. Hewas generally deficient, also, in point of compo¬sition : his speech, however, on the trial ofLouis XVI. is an exception. That on therecognition of the Supreme Being is said tohave been written by a member of one of theci-devant academies.It was the idea of his virtue, and confidencein his principles, that procured him the un¬bounded esteem of a corrupt age. Until in¬toxicated with power, his conduct and moralsmust be allowed to have been unimpeachable.While a private man, he exhibited virtues thatseemed to render him worthy of command ; andit was not till he was vested with supremeauthority, that, like the deified Caesars of an¬cient times, he threw off the character of hu-manity, and became a demon. He was nevera republican ; for the idea of a commonwealthsupposes a restraint on governors, as well as ongoverned ; and, if we are to believe theassertiC' of an illustrious woman, (MadameBoland,) who was basely murdered by him, hewas accustomeci to sneer on the mention of theterm, and ask what it meant.After the fall of BobespiorrCy the Conventionexhibited no small change of appearance. lu¬ff cad of that silence which formerly prevailed.24urn OP ROBESPIERRE.all was bustle and noise; all accused eachother. There was no longer any leader, andthere was no formed party. The formersystem of terror was declared at an end, anda new system of moderatism succeeded. Thiswas carried to as great a height as the systemof terror had formerly been ; and all meanswere taken to render popular the fall of theirlate tyrant. The committees were organizedanew, and their members ordered to bo fre¬quently changed. The correspondence be¬tween the affiliated Jacobin Clubs was pro¬hibited, and at last the Jacobin Club itselfwas abolished. This last event was accom¬plished with ease ; and that society, which hadbeen the great engine of the Revolution, ivasitself, without resistance, overturned : 71 depu¬ties of the Girondist party, who had been im¬prisoned since the 31st of May 1793, were setat liberty.