Fairy Tales,CONTAININGThe Stories of CinderillauOR, THELittle Glass SlipperLITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD;f Princess Fair-star and Prince Cherry''.AKDEBOULI SINA.TO WHICH IS ABHSDTHE FAIRY SONG.by J. Morr^ Cvvrgai^STO&Y ok CINDERILL\ jom, THELiftlb GLV4S SLIPPEA.I^NCF, there wa* e gentJetaan, vho aitried farhis fecond wife, the proudeft and moft haughtyw*ma» that ever was feeny She had by herfor-aier hufband two daughters, but of her own hu¬mour, who were indeed exactly like her in alithings. ?Se had likewife, by another wife, ayoung daughter of an unparalleled goodnefs andfveetnefs of temper, which flte took from hermother, who was the beft creature in the worldNo fooaer were the aeremcnics of the weddingover but the mother ia-law began to (hew herfelfin her colours. She could not bear the good qua¬lities of this pretty girl, and tae lefa becaufe (hemade her daughters appear the more odious Sheemployed her in the meaneft work of the houfe .(he fcoured the difties, tablia, L’c. a>id rubbedmadam's chamber, aad thofe of the mifles herdaughters; (he lay up in a very fory garret, up¬on a wretched draw bed, while her fifters lay infine rooms, with floors all ialaid, upon beds ofthe very newed faction. Her books were thoonly ^otpanion (he had, and when her fiflerawent > «« used to tahe the opportuaity ofreading theirs.The paor girl bore all patiently, and dared not*• tell her father, whe would have rattled her•ff; forms wife governed him entirely. Vyhsp,e had done her work flie ufed to go mto tfc«nimnev'»corner, and fit down among the cinder*:d afiies, which made her commonly he cal’edinder-Wrtech; but the voungeft who was notrude and uncivil as the elcieft called her Gin-ii!la. However, CinderiilaBotwithftandingheriean apparel, was on hundred times handfomerias eitner of aer fifters, tho’ they were alwaysiTfsedvery richly.cj It happened, that the king’s son gate a hall,id invited all perfons of falbioT^ to it; ourPong mifses wen; also invited ; for they cut 9cry grand figure among the quality* They werelightily delighted at this invitation, and wwu, ilrfully hufy in chufing oat fuch gown?, petti-^l-ats, and head-clothes, as might heft becomeirfjenu This was a new trouble to Cindavilla; for.1) I'was (he who ironed her filters linen, and clear-urched their ruffles; they talked all day long ofHthing, but how they fnould he dreft, and were..u.ntinuallv looking in their glafTes.i Kor my part, faid the eldelt, l will wetr my redMlVet fuit with French trimmings. And t faidt \y youngeft, Avail «nly have my u*ual petticoat;It then, to make amends for that, 1 will pat onMjP gold flowered mantua* and ray diamond fto-i. leber, which is far from being the moft ordinary.,■< : in the wnrld. They fent for the belt tirewo-!,sj,(j|n they eou'dget, to make up their head- dreGe*, ,tj ll adjuft their double pinners, ard had their redi,(i lilhfcS'and patthes from Madamoifella De lsLche.jUinderilla was likevrife called up to be eonfult-in all thofe matters, for Ifce had excellent iuj-bs, and advifad then always for the heft } nay"'■» t offered hwfcrvice to drefs their heads, whichtiiey were v«7 willing Jhc ilioul'i do. A* ike wi’doing thia, they faid to her, Cinderilia, •would youwot be glad to go to the ball ? Ah l faid fha, yoi;only jeer me, it is not for fuch as I am to go tcball*. Thou art in the right of it replied theytrit would make the peopl* laugh to fee a Cinderbreech at a ball. Any one hut Cinderilla would |,ihave drefsed their heads awry; but Hie was very 'good and dtefsed them perfeotly well. They were falmoft two days without eating, fo much werethey transported with joy ; thy brdke a dozen afi n-laces, in trying to be heed up close, that theymight have a fine slender Pnnpe.At lad the hnppy day came, they went to court, t''and Cindtrrilla followed thdn with her eyes a»long as flic coild, and when flie had loft fight ofthem, fee ell a crying.Her God.mother who faw her all in tears ask¬ed her what was the mattter i I wife I could fwife I ctuld. She was notable to fipeak the reft,being interrupted by her tears and fobbing. Thi*god mother of her**, who was a fairy, faid to her,,Thou wifeeft thoa couldeil go to the ball ? Is itnot io? Y-ei, cried Cinderilla, with a p-eatfigh.Well faid her god-mother, be bit a good girl, andI will contrive that then fealt go; run into thegarden and bring me a pompion. Ciuderilla wentimmediately, gathered the fined fee could get andbrought it to her god-mother bug was sot ablato imagina how this pompion could make her goto the ball. Her god-mother fcoCped out all theinfide of it, leaving nothing but th# rind; whichdone fee {truck it with her wand, and the pompioawas inftamly turned into a fine coach, gilt ail»v«r with gold.IJf She then went to 'look into her moufe trap,'■■whtre fhe foun^ fix mice all olive, and ordered!Cinderilla to lift up the trap-door a little, when! giving each moufe, a* it went out, a little tap[With her wand, the mice were that moment turn-i ed into horfea, which altogether made a very finefet of fix horfe#, of a beautiful jet black. See herei the reward for every good boy and girl.Being at a lofs for a coachman, I will go and: :l fee fays Cinderilln, if there be ever a rat in thej trap that we may make a coachman of hi a. 4 houdart in the right replied her god-mother, go andi! look. Cinderiila brought the trap to her, and inI it wer# three huge rots. The fairy made choiceoi of one of the three which had the l&rgeft beard,il *nd having touched him with her wand, he waui j inftantly turned into a fat jolly coachman, with a^ pair of the fmartest and moft beautiful whiiker*that eyea ever beheld.After that, fire (aid to Cinderilla, go again intothe garden and you will find fix lizarda behindthe watering pot, bring them to me. She had no: fooner doae i», than her god-mother turned thawlii into fix beautiful well drefsed footmen, whe skip-ped up immediately behind the coach, with theiri clothes all trimmed with gold and filver. and clung -as close behind each other, as if they had don* no¬thing else all their whole lives. The fairy thenfaid to Cinderilla, well, you fee her# on equipagefit to go to the ball] are yoa not pleased with it?* O yes! cried file; 1 am extremely well pleasedwith it; but mujj I go thither as 1 am, in theienasty pUonedJrag# ? her god»motber only touch¬ed her with her wend, and at the fame instant,her clothes were turned into cloth of gold andSlver, bedecked with the richest jewels that ever6Were feen in any pflnecs’srei-iiue, in the whoj|world- Thie done Hie gnVe her a pair of glatlipprrj, which :or bemity rrci elegance, far iurpafsed any thing of the hind ever feen before.Being thm drest out, she got up into thi•ohch; but her godmother above ell things comi*nianded her rot to stay till after rmdnighi, tellingker at the fame titr.r, if Iho staid at the ball anjlonger than twelve o’clock her coach would bea pnnipion again, her horfes mice, her coachmata rat, her footmen lizards., and her cloches becomejust as they v *re before.She promiUd her godmother flie would notfail ol leaving the ball before it was isidtigktrand then sway file drove, fcarce able to containkerfelf for joy. The king’s son who wsa tola thata great prmeefn, whom nobody knew, w&s corns,raft out to leceive her; he gave her hi* handas Ote lighted out of the coach, and led her intothe room among all the company. There wajimmedietely a profound filence; they left off dan-sing and the violins ceased to play ; so attentiveWas every one to contemplate thefmgular beautyof this Unknown new-comer. Nothing was thenlicard, but a confused noife of Ha! bow handsomejkeis! how handsome flie is! the King himfelfsculd not help telling the Queen softly, that it■was a long time fince he had fee* fobeautifui andlovely a creature. All the ladies were busy inOtmfidering her clothes ar"\ head-drefs, that theyslight have fotne made the next dsy afi:er thenil me pattern, provided they could meet with focb£ne materials and as able l a ids to make them.The King’s fon conducted her to the mod bonour-abls feat, nrd afterwards took her cut to dancewith him ; flie danced fo very graecihlly that they;tfc!; 7all more nnd more admired hor» A 4ne coIIado*was f-rv«d up, whereof tVie Touug prince ate nota amfel fo inctntly was K' Wfy in gazing on he*.She went and (at down '* her fisters* Ihewifigthem a thoufaod civilities, giving them a part ofthe oranges and citrons, which the prince hod pre¬fen ted her with; which very much furpriiedthem for they did notlinrw her While Cinder-illa was thus amusing her listers, she heard theclock strike eleven and three quarters; where¬upon fh'e immediately made & courtefy, and hasted•way as fost as fhe could.£eicg got heme (lie nm to ftek out her god¬mother; and after haviqg thanked her, Ihc saidfhe could not but heartily wilb fce might go nextday to the ball, becanfe the king’s fon had dtfiredher. as iiic wft5 eagerly telling her god-motherwhatever pafsed at tha ball, her two filters knock¬ed at the door which Cir.derfila ran and opened.How long yo* have stayed, cried flic, gaping, rub-ing her eyes, and stretching herfelf, as if file badbeen just awaked out of her sleep: She had nothowever any manner of inclination to sleep f*ic*they went from home. If thou hadst been at theball faid her listers, thou wouldest not have beentired with it; there carae thither the finelt priu-cefs, the mod beautiful ever fetn with mortaleyes : file fiicwed us a thoufaad civilities ; andgave us oranges and citrons. Cindertlla feemedvery indifferent in the matter; indeed flie askedthe name of that princefs; but they told herthey did not know it; and that the king’s fonwas very uneafy on her account, and would givenil tbe world to know where Ihe was. At thisCiuderilla fmiling, replied, die mui‘ then be verybeautiful indeed. Blesi me how bn] py yenkeen! Could I not fee her f Ah ! dear Mif* Char¬lotte, do lend tne your yellow fuit of clotheswhich you wear every day. Ahl to be fore,•ries Mifs Charlotte, lend ray clothes to fuch adirty Cindder breech as thou art, who’s the fool•hen ? Cinderilla indeed expected fonae fuch a*j-fwer; and was very glad of the refusal, for fhewould have been fadly put to it, if her filler hadlent her in earneft, what flie asked for jeflingly.The next day the tw* fiflers were at the ball *and fo was Cinderilla, but drefsed more magnifi-oently than before. The king’s fon was always byher, and never ceafed his corcpliment* and amor¬ous fpeeches to her; to whom all this was fo farfrom being lire fame, that file quite forgot whather god-mother had recommended to her; fo thatflic at lafl counted the clookftriking twelve, whenflue took it to be no more than eleven; fhe thenrofe up and fitd'as nimbly is a deer. The princefollowed but could not overt.ike her; flie left be¬hind one of hsr glafs slippers, fellow to that fliedropped. The guards at the palace were afked,if they had not feen a princefs go out ? who faid,they had fi.en nobody go out, but a young girl,very meanly tlrefl, who had more the air of a poorcountry girl, than a gentlewoman.When the two filters returned from the ball,Cinderilla asked them, if they had been well di-verted, and if the fine lady had been there ? Theyt#ld her yes, but that Qie hurried away imme¬diately when it ftruck twelve and with fo muchhafle, that file dropped one of her little glafs slip¬pers,the prettied in the world, and which th«king’s fon had taken up ; and tViat he had donenothing but looked at her all the time of the ball,and that certainly he was very much in love withI!',t;r*I;1! the beautiful perfon who owned the little glaf*i slipper.What they faid was very true; for a few day*i 'after, the king’s fon caufed k to be proclaimed,by found of trumpet, that he would marry her,iwhofe foot that flipper would juft fit. They whom: he employed began to try it upon the princetses,ilkhen the duchefses, and all the court, but inf vain it was then brought to the two fillers, whodid all they pofsibly could to thrall a loot intoilthe slipper but they could not effect it. Cinderilla,iwho faw all this, and knew her slipper, laid tothem laughing Let me fee if it will not fit me lHer fillers burft out a laughing, and began to ban-utter. The gentleman who was lent to try theilslipper looked earn.Illy to Cinderilla, and findingaher very handfomc, faid it was but juft that (heil&ould try, and that he had orders to let everyrne make trialHe obliged Cinderilla to fit down, and putting.lithe slipper to her foot, he found it went on very. eaftly and fitted her as if it had been made of'jwax The amazement her two filleri we/e in,!\was excefsively great,but ftill abundantly greaterllwher Cinderilla pulled out other pocket the oth¬er slipper and put it on her foot. Thereupon intame her god-mother, who having touched withiher wand Cinderilla's clothes made them richer1land more magnifient than any of those ihe hadi isefore.When her two fillers found her to bethe beau-;iful lady they had feen before at the ball, theyhrew themselves at her feet, and begged pardonor the ill treatment they had made her undergo,Cindenlla took them up, and as Ibe embracedlo *them faiu, ihat £he forgave them with ali heiheart, and dslired them always to love her*She was conducted to the young prince, whomartied her. Cincerilla who was no lefs good |than beautiful, gave her two fillers lodgings in tthe palace, and that fame day asatchcd them with ||two great lords of the court._/theSTORYorUTILE RED RIDING-HOOD.f^NGE upon a time there lived in % certian yit-^ lage, a little girl, r ve prettied creature that [ever was feen; loved and admired by all, not onein the village could compare with her. Her mo¬ther was fond of her t® a great degree, and hergrandmother much more io; and well they might,file was fo good natured, fo fweet tempered, andf© ready to oblige ; ard befides never milietl herprayers twice or thrice a day for her mother,grandmother, and all her relations, and everybody elfe (lie could think of* It being cold wea- 1then her grandmother had a little red riding-hood made for her to keep her warm, and fhelocked fo very pretty and p'eafant when (he hadit on, that by every body flie loon gaiiied the nameof Little Reel Riairg-Need.Her mother came ore day, knowing that hergrandmother was ill; and having madefome cuf-■j -*r » i mtards and cbeefe-^akes, called h'6r, and faid,' Mylitile Biddy, (for that was htfr name) go and feeyour grandmother, and take also wtih you fotnecbftaf ds and oheefe-cakes, and this pot of buffer.The little red riding-hood was foon put on, a'ndout Ihe fets to fee her grandmother, who youmuft obferve lived at another yillage through awood. ^When fhe came to the farther end of the wood,fhe was r*et by gofsip Wolf, who, being a verycruel creature, had a mird to eat her up ; but asloaje faggot men were at work in the forrefl, hedid not dare to it: but by his deceitful Ipeechestried another way to detiroy her, and like a trea¬cherous knave, aiked her where fUe was going ibearly?The pietty innocent* child, vrho tho»ght noharm herfelf,and did not know whi t had companyIhe had lallen into discourse with, idUl, l am go»ing to my grandmother who i* not well, with »culfard, and a little pot of bitter, which ray mo¬ther fends her. At which th§ dining wolf a Iksif (he lived far iff?A great way berow yonder mill, (pointingwith her little white finger) in the village youfee yonder.Well, said the defigning Wo’f, I will go and feeher too; but 1 wil go the other way, do yom gothat; I will be there as foon as you. So the Uttlogirl went through the meadows, gathered cow¬slips and violets to make her grandmother’s win¬dows fweet and fine: for it was in the month ofMay, when those flowers were in their prime.The Wolf, who knew the neareft way, andwent much fuller than the child, was not long be¬fore he got to the g! and mother’s house ; when heWbo iit there £kicked at the door, toe, toe,2noth the good old woman. Yoor grand daughteriddy, faid the wolf, (imitating the child’* voiceas much as he could) and I hive brought youfome cudard and a little pot of butter which mo¬ther has fent you, The grandmother, who wa*ill, and in bed, bid her pull the latch, and the doorwould open, fo the wolf pulled the latch, went in*to the room, and with his great teeth and raven¬ous appetite, foon ate the poor old woman entire¬ly up, (foryou muft underlland he was very (harpfet, having had nothing to eat for three or fourdays before.) After he had eaten up the grand-,mother, he like a cunning vilian thought how hemight deceive Little Red Riding-Hood, and de--vour her alfo So he (huts to the door very doseagain, and rolls himfelf into the grandmothersbed becaufe he was Cure Little Red Riding-Hoodwould foon be there.A little time after, fhe came and knocked atthe door toe toe. Who is there i quoth the trea¬cherous wolf. The little harmlsfs Riding-Hood hearing fo gruff a voice (though he had diLfembled as much as he could) was afraid at firft; |however not knowing but her grandmother mighthave ta*en a great cold, and fo be very hoarfe,flie said, it is your grand.daughter Biddy, and Ihave bi ought yoa fome eudard and a little pot ofbutter, my mamma fent me with to you. TheWolf anfwers her in as foft a voice as he could.Lift up the latch and the door will open; whichHie did, and coming to the bed-fide, the perfidiouswolf hiding his ugly head under the clothe* andfpeaking iu a faint tone, faid, put the euftard andbatter on the ftool, and come into bed, for I amvery cyld.*5The good fialute and kind temper of little RedRiding-Hood made it not long before £be obeyedthe command* of her grandmother, undrefsed her-felf, and went into bed ; but was fadly frightedat her grandmama's long ear*, which ftared overher night cap. So faid the child to her (feelingher arms) tflefs me! grandmama, what greatam* you have got! They are the better to em¬brace; thee, my pretty child, Grand*tnama, whatgreat and ftrange legs you have got l They arethe better to run, my child. Grand-mama whatgreat eye*, and long teeth you have got I Theyare the better to fee you, and to eat yon up.And a* foon as he had faid thefe words, this wick¬ed wolf flew upon poor Little Red Riding-Hood,atid eat her up.theSTORY^OF -PRINCESS FAIR STAR.ANDPRINCE CHERRY.' ‘ . >r7,HERE was a princefs, who having gone thro*A faveral misfortunes, had nothing left of allh#» pad graadser. She took * pretty little houie" 14 !ni/h a, great city, and made the beft fricasees ancragouts imaginable infonvuch that (he had a con.fiderable trade.One day there came a Tittle woman to her *i:<houfe. I am come faid (he to the Princefs, to «make a good mea! before I die, that I may bi'ag I);have had one. As the princefs had at that time; kuher hands fully employed, fhe called down her 'three daughters, whole names were Rcufetta, p:Brunet ta, and Blondina, but the youngeft was the ohandfemsft and belt natured The daughters foon 3fet before the old woman * very good dinner,,; twhich Tie ate with nn extraordinary appetite^When Ihe had done, Use rofe up fa) mg, tloijeft *friends, had I any money 1 would pay yor ; but 1 'have bten poor thefe many years and wanted fo -kind an entertainment as you have given me; T-however a [sure yourielves, the find wiih you imake without thinki; g on me, fiiall be completed i;Then fhe went away leaving them feme reafons. kto think her a f;iry.One day the king going a hunting refulved to toall at the houi'e, to fee if the princeis was a* . 4notable a cook as (lie was reported to be The >three lifter were in the garden gathering ftraw- tbenies, when he pafsed by Ah ! faid Rofetta* itwas I lb happy as to marry the Admiral, I boaitthat f could Ipiu thread enough to make fails forhis whole navy And I faid Brunetta, was myfortune to good that i fltould marry the King’sbrether, 1 would woijt lace enough with my needleto hang his pal ce. Ard I *aid Blondina, wouldthe King have me, 1 borft at the tnd of ninemonths, to biirg him fcrt.1) two fine boys and agirl, with ftars in their foreheads, and chains ofgold about t’ru-ir necks, from whose hair-banging.*5 t ■on curioas rin^J, fhould drop . valuable jewels;One of the kings favourites overhearing the dif-: : courfe, went and informed the king thereof, whoi; ordered them to come to him, and being charmed’ I with the modefty of Blondina, he refolved to[ mar ay her: As did his brother, and the admiral,il the other two. But when the queen-mother who•!i| was the moft cruel of all women, heard that thei king and prince were married to two giris of ob-feure birth, (he flew into fuah a pafsion, as fright¬ened the whole court.The fair queen and the princefs were united bya ftrict friendib.'p, but Roietta envied . them fortheir good fortune; which msde her enter intoall the queen-mother’s meafures who only waitedan opportunity to do BsunetU and Blondir.a, allthe mischief the could* The queen and princefsiboth proved with child, but by u! fortune a wartihappened which oblegt d the king to pm himfelfiat the head of his troops ; fo taking leave of hisijfpoufe with great tenoernefs he departod.VV hilft the king was at the wars, the queen was^brought to bed of two boys and a girl, with liarsi in their foreheads, and chains of gold about their■ neck*, as was the princefs the f t me day of a beau-1 tiful boy; but Brunetta died in the birth. Ro-r fetta’s thought* were wholly employed how to in¬jure the queen ; and feeing fuch charming chii-i dren, and that (lie herlelf had none, her rage en-i creafed, and fire refolved to fpedk with the queen-o mother. 1 have, laid fhe to hcr^ a little bitcht that has juft pupped two dogs and a bitch, with)i liars on their foreheads & rings about their necks.'V7e mull, make the opueen belnve, flue has beenllelivtred of thefe creatures, ar.tl make avroy withf  nr-; :h^r three childrer, and that of the ptincefs de- :ceafed. This project was approved, of by the in- rhuman queenmother, who ordered reintisa, one ofhev maids- of honour, to fetch the whelps, anddrefs them in as fine linen and lace* as the queen’schildren ihould be, and put them into the cradles;as for the poor queen, fce had like to die with, jjgrief, on feeing the whole litter of whelps lie byher, not knowing that the old queen had orderedFeintisa to take the four children and llrangle'them, but juft as Die was going to execute thatfatal commifsion, feeing the liars in their fore-.; • heads,whichlhe thought might portend fometlnngextraordinary, durll not lay criminal hands onthem, but put them imo their cradles on board alittle boat, and with fome jew els committed them,to the mercy of the fe.a.The Kingwhofe thoughts were always on hisdear Spoufe, having concluded a truce for fometime, returned with all fpeed home, and arrivedabout twelve hours aftej bet delivery ; but whenhe heard fee was delivered of whelps, he orderedboth them and her to be put into a litter, and,lent home to her mother’s, where Ihe arrived ai¬med dead.But heaven looked with a more favourable eyeever the Princes and Ptincefs; ft) after floating Iout to fea, they were taken ap by a Corlaij, who jbeing touched with the beauty of theie children, ||and having none of his own, turned back, and' Itgave them to bis wife, to be educated and brought |ju:> as their own'; but t:iey were not a little fur- Iprifed, when they eame to comb them, to fee jjewels and diamonds fall out of their hair The Jprince Is they callee Fair ftar, the eldest brother Ii Bright fun, the fecond Ion Felix snd the Pria-:! Cefs’* fon Cherry.* They lived with the Corfair and hi* wife tillthey grew up, when they txprefsed a great cdefireto travel; the Corfair agreed to their requeft,n and they fet out altogether, and travelled till they1 without knowing it came to the very place ofthdir nativity.The new* of the arrival of four faeh extraor.I dinary perfonaget, foon reachad the ears of the;j queen-«or.her ; who collecting the circmndancesof the *tar* a^d chain* of gold, wa* struck withamazement, and retiring to her clofet fent forITeintifa, who coming half dead with fear, castherfelf at her feet, told her all file had done, and' promiied to destroy them.Accordingly file went to their houfe, and beingi introduced to Fair-star, complimented her on her: beauty, but told her (he wanted one thing quiteinecefiary, and that was the dancing watei, whichi had the power of making every one handfotne tothe greatest degree that was poffefsed of it, andadded, it was no where to be got but in the bura-ling forest.Cherry, When he went home from hunting, ob-iferved Fair*ftar to be sorrowful, end asking her{the reafon, Ihe told him. Cherry, who loved herlj greater, took no farther notice of the affair; but! While his filler was bufy, mounted his horse andi rode away.He travelled till he came to the top of a hill,i and being faint with the heat of the burning foreft,Hopped at a rivulet to drink, when he had dona1 drinking he} petceived a turtle drowning,' andtaking pity on it, and having wiped the feather»»1 put ir in his bosom, where it recovered.Prince, {aid the tart’e this is net the fn'ft time .I have received fignal favours from your familywhich made him ten times handfomer than he wa«before; fo mounting hi* hor«e, returned home, .carrying fome of the water with him to hi* filterThe re«tlef* Kestinia knew, by her fpies, thatCherry was returned, and that he and his fister,Was.more beautiful than ever. However,{he con.trived to fee Fair-star again; and congratulatedher on Cherry** fuccef*; but told her at the fame itime file fliould think of getting the Snging apple,which was a great embelliihmect to the wit, andbefide fung lo fine, that it ravifhedall that heard,it.Cherry heard of this by chance, and when allwere gone to bed mounted his white nag a^ain,and fet out in fearch of the apple. Arter feveraldays journey, he perceived in the road a turtle al¬most dead, and taking pity on it, wijjed the fea¬thers which were bloody, took out of his pocketa bon of an admirable ointment, and no foouer ap¬plied it to the wound of the poor turtle, than itopened its eyes, stretched out its wings and look¬ing at Prince Cherry, laid. You are destined tofave my life, and perhaps I may do you as lignal afervice, follow me, and I will affid you in this en¬terprise. 1 Ire Prince let her go, and followed hertill they came to a great mountain ol land Dig !bore faid the turtle, which he accordingly did,fometimes with his hand, and fo-netimes with hi*1 have it in my power to reward you: follo w meCherry did fo till he eame to the mouth of a vau5then jumped off his horfe, and the turtle conduc<d him to the fountain; he immediately.filledvefsel he brought, and pulled two hearty draughts19fword after feme hour* hard working, he found| a complete fuit of armour for man and horfe, aliof glafs : he had however fcarce got it on,befoi ethe dragon that guarded the apple, came roaringtowards him ; but when he faw his own terrioi*figure multiplied fo many times in the Prince’sglass-armour, he ran away, f righted to fee *o *ianyi fuch monflers as hitnfelf. Atttr that. Cherryfearching about, difeovered with joy the beautifuli tree, and breaking of the bemgh that bofe thei! apple he made haste back to prefent it to h’u br-S loved Fair-star.When the wicked Ftintisa heard of PrinceI Cherry’s success (he could hardly contain herfelf;!l but repaired to Fair-stir, who as foon as (lie fawi her, cried. Ah ! keep your advice to yourielf, forI though the benifits 1 receive are great, they make1 not amends for the uneasinefs I am under. Youti mud notwithftanding that be told, faid Feintisa,;f that you want the little green bird, who tellsH every thing; and then left her abruptly.Fair-star reflected how great pleafure it would!be to them to know their parents, and thereuponcried ; Cherry, who came in foon after from hun¬ting, saw it and a(ked the cause, which (lie refufedto tell him ; he thereupon threatened to kill him-felf, and by that means extorted the fecret fromher, but (hr infifted, that he fliould not with hislife feek to fatisfy her defire*. However ss foonik as (he and her brother* were retired to their: l chambers, he mounted his horfe again, ar.d wentIawav without faying a word to any one.The Prince wands’ed up and down, asking allhe met where he might find the Green Bird, to, be (hort, one morning by fun rife, he perceived arock, which we* very high and craggy, and or. thetop of it, the bird talked like an oracle ; Cherrythoughu he might catch it with very little troublefince ;£ appeared to he very tame. He alightedon hi* horse, and climbed up without making anynoife, when all of a ludden the rock opened, and■•ic fell motionlefe into a large hall. His two brothen likewise fet out with the lame hope*, andmet with the fame mufortune.^air-star feeing none of her brother* return,was inconfolable. and without further hefitation,ordered their fervant to stay fix tnonth*, and ifneither fhe nor her brother* returned in thattime, to go and acquaint the Corfair and hi* wifewith their death*. Then drefoing herfelf in man’*clothe*, to fecure her from any infult* on herjourney, Feimisa had the pleafure to fee her fetout on her Ifabella barfe, and immediately ranfull of joy to regale the quaen of the new*,Fair-fttr in lier way faw a turtle dove, no leftwhite nor cold than the fnoer it lay upon, andtaking it up, faid, What (hall I-do lovely turtle tolave thy life? To which it anfwered. One fweetIcif* /sirdar, will finife what you have fo chari¬tably begun, She kil*ed it immediately, end theturtle reviving, faid, 1 thank you foa what youhave done, and now I will do fomething for you.■When you come to the rock inltead of attemptingto climb it, flay at the bottom, and pretend to beaileep; when the green bird fees me, he will comeirom the rock to peck me, and then you mull takethe advantage and catch him. She did fo, and bythe directions of the turtle took a red feather outof the green bird’* wing, and touching the rockwith it three times, the enchantment wa* broke,and her brother* with nianv others iVt fret.21Whsn die kin^ heard of their return, he fenf.i>r them and their curiosities to court, vvh: re thegreqp bird gave an account of their birthaNeverwa* joy greater chan theirs, their mother• 'was Sent for. and while they were embracing each' 'other, the Fairy appearing, told them how {hes had protected them under the fliape of a turtle,c and all upon account of the charitable receptionI the queen Blondina gave her. Cherry to com-iplete hia happinefs was married to Ifair-Oar, who. before he took for hi* filter. But as for iht Queenimother, Rosrtta and 0‘eintifa, her maid of hon-t|»ur, they were fent into perpetual puniflment,THESTORYorEBOUU SINA.ntyBOULI SINA, afage Uervicc, had pa«ed the■ -*-4 night in the house of a poor woman, who hadjj exercised all the duties bf hofpitality towardsi him, he was touched with the unfortunate condi-<jtion to which flte was reduced, arid refolving t«i fucceur her in her misfortunes, he loofened a Clone/ from out of the wall of the house, and pronouncedicforae words over it, placed it again where it wasu before, and peirced it with a little pipe, at therad of which he put a cock, then faid to the w**a*n‘an as urned her ha thai:k», and bid heradieu.Idy good Mother, whenever you are in wantcf neciaarits turn this cock an 1 draw out aa muehwine as you please ; take the qu& • ity that is ne*cefsary for your own use, and cary the rtmainderto the market, he assured that the fource willnever fail, all 1 exact of you is, not to unlo. .ft thehone, nor to look at what I have put behind it.Ti e geodmoman proirifed fhe would not, and d»-ving feme time obferved what the holy man hadrecomniencled to her. She gathered riches; af¬fluence and plenty foon reigned hi her little fa¬mily, at length curiolity became fo ftrorg withinher that Ihe submitted to its dictates, flie displacedthe ftone, and found nothing behind it but onsfingle grape; flie then repfaced it in the fame or¬der flic found it, but the wine ran no more : Thuswas (he by fatisfying her idle curiofity punifhedby the fame want (he before experienced.ASONGSUKG ST THE*UEEN of the FAIRIES.Come, follow, follow me.Ye fairy elves that be,X,ike tripping oe,r the green,feme fellow all your Queen .**3Hand in hand we'll dance around*,y'or tlii» place i* fairy ground.Wheu mcrtalt are at rf-ft,w And ihonng in their nett*Uaheard and unefpiedThro* key holes we do glide ;Over tables, fiools, and {helves,RTe trip it with our fairy elves.And if the houfe be foul,With platter, dilh, or bowl.Up flairs we nimbly creep,And find the fluts asleep;■/i 'hen we pinch theia arms and thighs• lone us hears, and none us fpies.But if the houfe be fwepr.And from uncleannefs kept,W# praise the houfehold maid.And lurely {he is paid:(very night before we go,Ve drop a teller in her (hoe,Then oe\r a mufhroom’s head,Our table cloth we fpread;A grain of rye or wheat,The diet that we eat;urly drops of dew we drinki corn cups filled to the brink.The baains of nightingales,With unctoHs fat of snaifs,*4Between two cockels ftew’d.Is meat that's eafily chew’d;Brains of worm', and marrow of mice.Do make a feaft that’s wond’rous nice.Tl/e grafliopper, gnat, and fly,^siye for our minllrelly ;Grace faid, we dance a while,And fo the time beguile :But if the moon doth hide her head.The glow-worm light* us home to bed.O’er tops of dewy graft,So nimbly f»e dopafs,The young and tender ftalkNe’er bends where we do walk ;Yet in the morning may be feenWhere yre the night before have btea.r I N I 3-