) TIIBICELEBRATED NORTRUMBERLAND PIPER,5ji) Giving an Account of his Parcntapo, Education, ox-I traordinary Adventures and Exploits; his numerousI' Enlistings, and wonderful Escapes :—with a briefI) Narrative of his last Confinement and Death in,) Durham Gaol, which happened in 1810.AhGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1Dm-pai h ;u . jo‘* i f i ; ,1 ; >■) ■ , I ' s»hA ■— ;< ;fp ‘J ■ U6( V :’. w . . ." ■ 1 if*: ; i '.i ■i.i-ttilliS/iffi MSliiLiKBrj/!) IMT1 -i1VHE8 VrrVHHI a X 0 KLHISTORYJAMES ALLAN.chap. i.William Allan, commonly called Old Will, the fatherof Jemmy Allan, was born in the parish of Simonburn,in the west of Northumberland. His character mani¬fested all the peculiarities and irregularities of the Gipsytribe, which, in all probability, he inherited from the'original stock. In addition to the usual Gipsy occupa¬tions of mending pots and pans, making horn-spoons,besoms, &c. he became, in early life, a skilful performeron the bagpipes, which endeared him to all his Gipsyassociates." At an early period he settled in the romanticwilds cf Rothhury, where Will and his parties were en¬gaged in many a midnight revel. At this place homarried a fine Gipsy girl, named Betty, who bore himseveral children, amongst whom was the extraordinarycharacter that forms the subject of the following history.James Allan, better known by the name of JemmyAllan, was the youngest but one of Old Will’s six chil¬dren : he was born near Rothbury in March, 1734. Ininfancy James was accustomed to the most hardy treat¬ment : unencumbered with superiiuous clothing, ho wasinnured to the winter-blast. By constant practice hebecame so unrivalled in athletic feats, that few durstencounter him in leaping, running, or wrestling. Inearly youth he was deemed handsome, while he display¬ed the most acute and inventive genius, which was soonprostituted to acts of low cunning and dissimulation.Allan early began to thieve in a small way : at first, hisdepredations did not extend beyond the robbery of theneighbouring gardens; but ho soon became such an4adept, that whenever a Gipsy camp was in want, youngJemmy was sent out to forage, when all the hens, ducksand geese within his reach became his prey.When about 14 years of age, Jemmy evinced a strongdesire to excel on the pipes. Old Will was delightedwith his son’s taste and zeal, and was therefore indefa¬tigable in assisting his pupil in his exertions. YoungAllan possessed an accurate ear and refined taste, andby his progress, gave certain indications of future excel¬lence. In due time with much feasting. Allan was re¬gularly installed among the privileged class of minstrelsand shortly afterwards, as an independent man, joinedthe “faa gang” over which old Will Faa held the sove¬reignty for many years, and Allan had the honour olbeing frequently and kindly noticed by his majesty.Allan’s superior skill in pipe-music was soon knownthroughout Northumberland. At length his fame reach-nil the ears of the Countess (afterwards Duchess) olNorthumberland, who sent a message to James, re¬questing his attendance at the castle. This gratifiedAllan’s ambition; but his cloathsbeing coarse and muchworn, and very unfit to make his appearance before alady of such distinction, he had recourse to an expedient,* Inch soon raised him above this difficulty. lie had no¬ticed a farmer’s only daughter, who had often cast.a wist¬ful eye towards him. lie contrived to obtain a privateinterview with the fond and inexperienced girl: he toldher of the sincerity of his love, the honour of his inten¬tions, and the golden prospects that would flow from thepatronage of the Countess, and at length delicately hint-' ' arrassment. Sne rejoiced to findpossession of a sum sufficient to equip him genteelly.Having thus secured the ways and means. Allan set oftfor Alnwick with a light heart. The day after hisarrival at the castle, he was ushered into the presenceof the Countess; and, after he had mustered some de¬gree of courage, he began to play, and acquitted himself:n so masterly a style, that he was instantly ranked asone of her musicians, and shortly after appointed hot-own piper. Allan continued at the castle upwards oftwo years, during which his conduct was irreproachable,lie soon acquired an easy, genteel, and insinuatingaddress, and having a retentive memory, he readilyacquired much useful knowledge. As his knowledgeremoved, and soon put him in5increased, he the more bitterly lamented his early aver¬sion to learning, end subsequently formed the laudableresolution of returning to his native village for thepurpose of acquiring the elements of a common educa¬tion. Unfortunately for young Allan, the schoolmasterwas ill, and being thus left without any regular employ¬ment, he resumed his old practices. lie joined the dissi¬pated groups of the village alehouse, where his musicand his wit gained him the loudest applause.During his visit he was precipitated into an unfor¬tunate marriage with a young woman, who, by hetviolent temper, thriftless housewifery, and unfaithfulconduct, rendered him miserable. Allan in consequenceleft her, and returned to Alnwick Castle, resolving toforget his faithless wife;—but a sense of his wrongshaunted his mind—he drank deeply, neglected his dutyat the castle, and became so regardless of his characterthat his company was shunned, and finding himself thusinsulted, he determined to change his scene of action,and enlisted as a substitute into the Northumberlandmilitia. The restraints of a military life not suiting hiswayward habits, in a short time he deserted, and secretedhimself in Newcastle. One evening, strolling down theQuayside, he saw his wife Fanny stepping ashore froma ship, accompanied by a sailor : Allan made her a lowbow, and being certain she, his only enemy, had quittedRothbury, he immediately bent his course home. Allan’sfather and mother received him with the greatest affec¬tion, and for a time he was very cautious of going out.However, there having to be an otter-hunt in the neigh¬bourhood, he could not resist the temptation of enjoyingthe sport; and during the hunt, the son of the Highconstable having said something to vex him, he tumbledthe youth into the Coquet. The son, in revenge, per¬suaded his father to arrest him as a deserter, and a posseof constables was sent to secure him. As they wereapproaching the house, Jemmy’s step-mother saw them,and instantly bolted the door. One of the constablesbegged the old people to give up the offender, as hia es¬cape was impossible, when she replied, “ Jemmy’s off1 toShields to take shipping for Lunnon.” “ I am glad ofthat,” said the wily constable, “but we will just look into satisfy all parties.” In the mean time Jemmy madea noise at the back window, as if ho meant to get outthere, which the party hearing, they all ran backward. > .to catch him, when old Will threw qpen the door, andran off at his utmost speed, his wife standing in the door-stead, shaking her apron, and screaming, “ Kun, Jemmy,run!” The constables immediately joined in the pur¬suit ; the stratagem succeeded: after old Will had runabout a mile, lie leisurely drew up, and said, with asarcastic grin, “I dare say Jemmy will be far enoughoff now,”—and so he was ; for, in the mean time, he hadstole quietly off’in a very different direction.CHAP. II.Allan shortly after made his appearance at Stagshaw-bank fair, where, on entering a tent, he met the sergeantof the company to which he was attached. The sergeantlaid hold of his arm, and said, “ Is not your name Allan i”■Without replying, Allan laid him sprawling at his feet,and ran for itbut the cry being set up, “ Stop thief,”he was taken and put into continement, until an escortwas ready to convey him to his regiment. At lengththree hearty fellows arrived, and they set off- to head¬quarters. On the second day they put up at a public-house, and as none of them were tired, they went into ayard to amuse themselves, when Allan bet a gallon hecould beat them at quoits; and, as the yard-wall washigh, his hand-cuffs were readily taken oft'. During thegame the soldiers drank freely, and, after play, they be¬gan to dispute which was the best shot. A mark wasset up, and Allan was chosen umpire. After firing anumber of shots, they laid down their fire-locks, whenAllan asked the reason of it? “ Because our shot is alldone,” was the reply. “ But, surely, you have one chargeleft for me, to try my skill.” “ Not one,” said they.” Then,” replied Allan, briskly, “ it is time to be off," and,springing upon the wall, ho disappeared in a moment.—The soldiers, amazed at his boldness and their own folly,did not attempt to follow.Allan hastened across the county of Durham, to pay avisit to his uncle at Holystone, with whom he stopped afortnight, after which he proceeded to Hatbottle, wherehe was kindly entertained by a farmer. A schoolmasterboarding in the same house, consented to share his bodwith Allan, as it rained heavily. Allan arose early, andtook leave, not forgetting to take the schoolmaster’swatch with him. The farmer, exasperated at such a7breach of hospitality, rode after him, accompanied by aconstable. Allan hading his pursuers gaining upon him,fled to a cleft in a rock, 40 feet deep, and 14 wide, andby a bold leap, reached the opposite side; when thefarmer drew his horse up, saying. “ Let us return, for itis clear the devil has helped the fellow.” Allan againenlisted, and in an attempt to desert, he sprained histoot, and was carried prisoner in a cart to Alnwick.The disgrace of being thus dragged into a place wherehe had been so respected, was most humiliating to hisfeelings. By the influence of the Countess- -* was liber¬ated, and again restored to favour.—But idling againinto his old vicious habits of gambling and drinking, hereceived a peremptory order to quit the castle withinone hour. Allan immediately took leave of the domes¬tics, who generously presented him with six guineas,which was very acceptable as he had only a few shillings.Allan now travelled northward, and stopping at asmall inn, in Jedburgh, he contrived at cards to swindlea farmer’s son out of 30 guineas, and knowing that thetransaction would not bear investigation, he thought itprudent to move forward. Arriving at Moffat, he met aGipsy girl, who: had been mending china, and tellingfortunes. Allan accompanied her home, when, after afew- hours’ acquaintance, they agreed to be united, andwere immediately pledged in the presence of a gang ofmupgers, who were encamped near the place. His newspouse gave him to understand that she was no meanpersonage, being allied by blood to Will Marshall, thecelebrated Gipsy chief, and proposed to visit him. Thechief received them with a hearty welcome ; and on beingtold “ that Allan could play fu’ weel on the sma’ pipes,”he asked for a “ swatch o’ his skill.” Allan knowing howas in the presence of royalty, he exerted himself inplaying “ Felton Loaningbut, before the tune was halfdone, Will rose from his seat, and taking Allan by thehand, said, “ You’re weel worth your room—there’s naomusic pleases me like the pipes.” Allan having continu¬ed some time with the gang, from considerations of per¬sonal safety w'as obliged to decamp. Allan had been pre¬viously presented with IGguineas by adying Gipsy friend,and having preserved most of the plunder gained atJedburgh, was W'ell stocked with cash—yet such was hismean and covetous disposition, that he walked ten milesin a dark night in order to steal his wife’s nockots, by8which he obtained several guineas, the savings of herindustry. At length Allan reached Edinburgh, and,being in possession of a considerable sum of money,commenced gentleman, frequented gaming-tables, &c.and at the end of six weeks possessed 160 pounds. II?frequently played with an Irish nobleman, who, being ;inovice in gambling, lost several small sums. One even¬ing the nobleman entered the Billiard Boom intoxicated,and offered in mad bravado to play for £200. Alimhaving only £160, agreed to deposit that sum, and if holost to pay the remainder in the morning. The gamewas soon despatched, for the youth who appeared suchan indifferent player won the game with ease. Thev.retended nobleman was no other than an Irish game¬ster, and one of the first billiard players in the kingdom.Allan, deeply chagrined at his loss, repaired to hislodgings and ordered supper ; having collected himself,he packed up his clothes, and among them, by accident,a silver tankard belonging to his landlord, and droppinghimself from a back window, made off towards Dumfries.While .amusing a party of gentleman there, a stranger,after listening to a few tunes, retired, and in a short timereturned with two constables, ordering them to takeAllan into custody. Being taken before the town-bailiff,he was charged with stealing a silver tankard from hisbrother’s house in Edinburgh. Allan denied the charge ;but, on his lodgings been searched, the tankard was foundamongst his clothes, and he was committed to prison.The gaoler being indisposed, the prisoners were underthe direction of the gaoler’s daughter. Allan now per¬ceived his advantageous position, and by artful flattery,satisfied her of his innocence, and of his strong attach¬ment to her; and, after three weeks of pretendedcourtship, the scheme was agreed to that he was to beset at liberty on the condition of making her his wife atthe first town they reached. At length the night of elope¬ment arrived: the clothes and the silver tankard, whichhad been given to her father, in order to produce it atthe trial, wore tied up in a bundle, which having beendelivered to him, he desired her to remain within thedoor until he reconnoitered ; but when out of her sighthe slipped off, and fled with all possible speed: havingtaken several cross roads, and changed his clothes, hemade towards Carlisle. In the course of his journey, hesuffered the greatest bodily exhaustion, and was at one9time giving himself up to despair, but for the kind inter-f position of a female, who from pity relieved him.CIIAr. III.On reaching Carlisle, he was led by a crowd to theMarket-place, where he discovered tlu. t four stout tink-i lers had stolen a game-cock; but, he . ing placed then-backs to a wall, were laying about thorn so unmercifullythat none dared to approach them. Allan suspectingthey might be some of his friends, began capering and' dancing, and twirling his stick around his head: hisantic tricks soon attracted the attention of the crowd,: and Allan continued his manoeuvres un\ \ he thought his; companions had got fairly off. He hims.. f took Ahe roodto Whitehaven, where ho was joined bj no less a per¬sonage than the Gipsy Queen, Madge Goudon, mountedupon a strong galloway; and had the satisfaction ofbeing introduced by her to a party of Gipsies, who werejourneying on to a general encampment. Amongst themwas a lively interesting girl, an adroit thief, and a mostlucky fortuneteller, who agreed to trust her fate withAllan, and soon convinced him that he was a merebungler in the art of thieving; she also taught himmany legerdemain tricks which he afterwards practisedwith groat advantage. Having agreed to accompanyhis new mistress into Westmoreland, on reaching Apple¬by, they took lodgings at a small public-house. Allan’sfemale partner went off for a few days into the country,while Allan continued to exercise his profession, and wasliberally rewarded. On returning home one night, hediscovered his wife Jean in the house. He concerned hissurprise, ordered his supper, and taking a candle, pro¬ceeded leisurely up to his room, packed up his pipes andhis clothes, and descended gently from the window.Knowing that both the landlord and hostler were drunk,he borrowed the horse of a London traveller, and rodeoff. Before reaching Penrith, he contrived so to alterthe appearance of the horse, that even his owner couldnot have sworn to him. Having exchanged the horsofor a galloway and ten guineas, he sot off across thecountry, resolving to visit Ireland. At Whitehaven hesold his galloway and sailed for Dublin.Amongst the passengers was a gentleman fond ofmusic, who was quite enchanted with Allan’s execution10nn the pipes and hautboy, and greatly exerted himself inestablishing his reputation as a, musician in Dublin,liis talents were valued very highly, and his incomeaveraged ten pounds per week.—Allan, puffed up by hissuccess, became ambitious of becoming a man of fashion ;and having reached this climax of folly, furnished agenteel house, in which he placed an extravagant andabandoned mistress. He was soon sunk deeply in debt.The upholsterer, who furnished his house, applied forpayment, when Allan pretended he had been disappoint¬ed of remittances from England, but would pay in sixweeks, determining in the mean time, to dispose of thefurniture and slip off. But this swindling scheme wasprevented by a draper, who took out a writ against him.In this^ritical situation he hastily secured some silverplate and his bed-clothes, and disposed of them to a iJew in a distant part of the city. But notwithstanding Ihis precautions, the upholsterer being informed of the 'transaction, succeeded in apprehending him as aswindler.Allan accompanied the officers with a cheerful air, tillthey reached a well acquainted spot when making asudden spring, he disappeared through a narrow pas¬sage, and tooK refuge in the house of a courtezan, whothough a reward was offered for his apprehension, lodg¬ed him in a place of safety, and paid him every possibleattention. She procured him an did suit of clothes, andfound a vessel which was to sail that night. Allan,secure in his disguise reached the ship without interrup¬tion. On his arrival in Liverpool he pushed on to Skip-ton. Finding it needful to have his finances recruited,he determiried to enlist; he accordingly accosted a ser-gfeant, told him a well feigned story of nis being robbedof his watch and 12 guineas, with which he was hasten¬ing home to relieve Ins parents who were in great dis¬tress. The Sergeant seemed to sympathize with him, andoffered to advance his bounty when ho was sworn in.Allan agreed, and accompanied the sergeantto a Justice,when the bustnessSvas finally Concluded. In the eveninghe pretended he had found a friend to take his money tohrs father, except a guinea, with which he treated theparty. Dating procured a billet, He left the company-,but instead of proceeding to his quarters, he left thetown, and walking briskly onward for two days, reachedDarlington. Here ho fell in with a gang of west-country11tinkers and coopers, among whom he spent all but twoshillings, and left Darlington condemning his folly insquandering away his money so foolishly On arriving,at Durham he entered a public-house to refresh himself. *The first person he met was a recruiting sergeant, andencouraged by his successful escapes he again resolvedto enlist The sergeant, seeing him a likely man, pliedhim with liquor until he gained his consent; havingfirst made the bargain that his bounty money should boimmediately paid him The sergeant did so, but notbeing quite satisfied with his reasons for shell conduct,ordered a corporal to keep strict watch over him. Thenwily Allan soon observed that his guard was partial todrink, with which he so liberally supplied him, that hehad to be earned to bed, on which Jemmy pocketed oneof the corporal's shirts, and deliberately left the house.He made the best of his way to the house of an old asso¬ciate, living at Felton Ferry Here he met a heartywelcome; and after three day's jovial carousal, he pro¬ceeded towards Newcastle ; but whilst walking downthe Bottle Bank, in Gateshead, he was taken prisoner bytwo stout grenadiers Considering resistance vain, Allanassumed a cheerful appearance, and accompanied themto the guard house in Newcastle : here he was informedthat a party had been from Durham in search of a de¬serter, ana that they suspected him to be the man.Allan protested his innocence, declaring he had not beenthere, and oft'ered to accompany them thither, expectingescape on the road ; but the officers determined to sendfor some of the recruiting party to come over and iden¬tify their man Duringthe day Allan appeared cheerfuland unconcerned ; but night approaching, and the sol¬diers from Durham being expected,'he determined onattempting his escape Requesting to be shown badk-wards, one of the privates was ordered to accompanyhim ; after waiting outside of the door until his pUtiencbwas exhausted, he called to Allan, but receiving no an¬swer, he opened the door, and was filled with astonish¬ment on finding the prisoner had vanished: ho neverhaving been one moment from the door Trembling Withfear he returned to the guard-house, saying. “ the |>ri-soner surely was the devil, and no man” The officersuspecting he had connived at the prisoner'6 escape,ordered him instantly to be confined A sergeant,‘ how¬ever, snatched up a candle, and having examine the12Slaco, discovered that the deserter had lowered himself |own, and escaped by a channel connected with the jplace. A party was immediately despatched to guard |tthe outlet. In the meantime, Allan explored his waythrough a narrow nasty dark passage ; and, after mucnstruggling, and being nearly suffocated, he emerged from \the disgusting channel, near to the Town Moor, where ho |ihid himself among the furze. The bustle about- thaguard-house, and the search of the soldiers, attracted the Jattention of several people, who joined in the pursuit; andJemmy was much alarmed by the near approach of hispursuers. At this critical moment, the corporal seized atownsman much like Allan in size and dress, and calledfor assistance. In an instant Jemmy sprung upon hislegs, shouting louder than the rest, “ Where is tne rascal”The mistake was soon discovered, and Allan continuedto appear anxious in the search ; yet gradually movingaway in a wider range, at length slipped off; and aided,by the darkness of the night, made good his escape.Allan not liking to appear in such a miserable plightamong his friends, at Rothbury, found refuge with oneof the faa-gang at Morpeth, ana knowing he could tr usthis vagrant friends, they spent the day in drinking.Having got his clothes properly cleaned, at night he setoff for Rothbury : and, with light step and joyful heart,he bounded over the dreary hills of Rimsice Moor : andthough it was mid-night when he reached his nativeplace he could not forbear visiting his favourite haunts.CHAP. IV.The news of his arrival spread like wild-fire throughthe little town of Rothbury ; and, surrounded by his oldfriends, he had the satisfaction of again tuning his ele¬gant small pipes, the gift of the Countess of Northum¬berland, which he valued so highly, that for fear ofaccident, he had left them with a gentleman ; but havinggot possession of them once more, he determined neveragain to part with them. While thus happy among hisold cronies, a secret message was forwarded to New¬castle : the colonel of the regiment immediately dispatch¬ed a trusty sergeant, and five men of courage, to appre¬hend this daring deserter. The party reached Rothburyin the afternoon; Allan was playing at cards, when aboy standing at the window cried out, “ What fine soldiers13are coining to our house!” Jemmy suspecting theirbusiness, snatched up a large poker, and rushed pastthem, as if mad with fury. His manner of leaving thehouse raised their suspicions, and they immediately gavechase: but Allan outrun his pursuers with ease, and madei towards a steep crag, a short distance from the town,ihe top of which he gained before the soldiers hadi reached the foot of it. Observing a pile of stones on thetop of the crag, he could not resist the temptation of giv¬ing them a salute as they came up the hill. He thereforewaited till he thought them sufficiently near, when hoj pelted them so heartily, that they were glad to returni without their errand. The soldiers re-entered the town;j and convinced there was no hope of securing him amonghis friends, returned to head quarters, representingJemmy as one of the most daring and desperate charac¬ters they had ever met with.After their retreat, Allan commenced practising as an' itinerant musician, and received great encouragement.After playing one night to some young farmers at Ot-terburn, he saw one of them lying intoxicated in thestack-garth; and, according to’ Allan’s narration, hefound his watch, which of course became his own. Earlynext morning he departed to a fair in •Cumberland,where he exchanged the watch for an old galloway andthirty shillings. He was now able to travel to the mostdistant parts of the country, and having purchased a suitof genteel clothes, he set off for Alnwick Castle. Beingintroduced to the Countess, he assured her of his im¬proved conduct, on which she consented to his remainingat the Castle ; observing that his reformation was morelikely to become permanent than by following the pro¬fession of a wandering minstrel: but Allan’s taste forrevelry and drinking was too firmly rooted to be so easilyovercome, and during his short stay at the Castle, hebehaved in the most thoughtless and irregular manner.It happened, however, that the farmer, wnose watch hehad stolen, discovered his lost property, and from thedescription of the person, he had no doubt but that Allanwas the thief. He immediately proceeded to Alnwickand made his business known to the steward of theCastle, who thought it necessary to consult Ids lordshipon the affair. The Earl paid the farmer the value of thewatch, and ordering Allan into his presence, told himthat a person of such infamous character could not be11permitted to remain any longer under his roof. TheEarl had too much generosity to dismiss him withoutsome acknowledgment, and ordered the steward to givehim ten pounds, and to charge him never to enter" theCastle again. Allan mortified, slunk away withouttaking leave of the domestics.Thus disgraced, he determined to go to Boswell Fair,where he learnt some of his friends had gone : arrivingthe night before the fair, he was well paid-for entertain¬ing a number of drovers who had brought their cattle tosell. About 8 o’clock he took a walk through the fair inhopes of meeting some of the faa fraternity; when hewas accosted in a rude manner with the appalling words,“ You are my prisoner.” On turning round, he saw ser¬geant Armstrong, of the 23th regiment, with his sworddrawn. Allan’s first impulse was to run off; but, onsecond thoughts, he shook Armstrong very cordially bythe hand, and told him, if he would give him his liberty,he would engage to procure him half a dozen as linelooking young men as any in the 25th regiment. Thesergeant agreed to the bargain, and, accordingly, Allanjoined the party with his pipes; and by a variety ofwhimsical capers, which so attracted the young men,that before night they had enlisted eight of them. Thesergeant, so well pleased with their success, invited Al¬lan to supper, after which they drank and danced untilmorning. In the meantime Armstrong sent word to asergeant recruiting at Kelso, to come and take him as adeserter; the scheme succeeded, and just when Allanwas taking leave, in marched the other sergeant. Allansuspected the plot, and best-owed the blackest epithetsupon Armstrong, who calmly insisted on the meetingbeing quite accidental. Allan was immediately march¬ed to Kelso, resolving to escape before they reachedhead quarters. lie tried the enects of whisky upon hisguards without avail; at night they agreed that heshould sleep between them. To this Allan made noobjection, but that he would sleep with his clothes on,and they agreed to do the same. Allan having provid¬ed himself with two needles and some strong twine, withwhich he cautiously sewed their clothes to the bedclothes, as soon as he wras sure they were asleep. Hav¬ing accomplished this, he sprung out of bed with so littlecare that he awoke both his bed-fellows ; but being en¬tangled together they rolled on the door ; Allan threw15up the window, and sliding down by the sign-post, effect¬ed his escape. He now determined to be revenged onArmstrong for his treachery; and proceeding directreached Wooler at an early hour, and demanded imme¬diate admittance to the chamber of the sergeant; whenAllan in a stern voice addressed him, “ Sergeant, yousee a man before you whom you have scandalouslyabused. I had the good fortune to see your colonel yester¬day, to whom I related your base conduct, and he gener¬ously presented me with my discharge, (drawing fromhis pocket a paper carefully foldedJ at the same time heinsisted upon me demanding of you two guineas by wayof recompence.” The sergeant being so abruptly awoke,and confounded by this peremptory message, gave himthe sum he demanded, and Allan withdrew, hoping howould come to no further harm on the business, furtherthan a reprimand which he justly deserved.Allan was highly elated at this successful piece of ro¬guery, and borrowing a galloway of a brother Gipsy, hestruck through the wilds of the north-west parts of Nor-thumberlana. Near Hawick he fell in with a party ofGipsies, and among them his wife Sally : they were pro¬ceeding to Kirk-Yetholm, to attend a marriage betweena distinguished Scotch Gipsy and one of old Will Faa’sdaughters. On entering the village, Allan repaired tothe royal residence, to pay his respects to old Will, t'twhom ho was received with great kindness. After celtbrating tho marriage with much noisy feasting, the com-pany dispersed after their various occupations. Allanwas ordered to stay at home, as it was not safe for himto Venture abroad. He spent his time in fishing, whichwas at once his occupation and amusement. During oneof his rambles, he heard that a gentleman farmer was tobe man-ied to a lady of fortune the following day. Hooffered his services which were graciously accepted, andhe was invited to remain all night. While meditatingon the profits of the engagement, he saw two fiddlersenter, and being afraid that the music of the violin wouldbe preferred to pipe music, he determined to “ spoil theirfiddling.” The two fiddlers made so free with the re¬freshments of the evening, that they had to be carried tobed. Allan, on the contrary, kept himself sober ; andobserving that the musicians had laid their fiddles besidehis pipes : as soon as he discovered that all was quiet, hegot out of bed, and put both tho tiddles and his pipes into16a water-tub. Allan allowed the fiddlers to rise beforehim in the morning, when diligent search was made fortheir instruments. Allan entered the kitchen, cryingout, “ O, the rogues, they have got my pipes !” Everyone believed tlioy were stolen, till one of the servantsdiscovered the fiddles in the water, quite spoiled. Allanhastened to the spot, and said, “ Ah, the loons, they havethrown my pipes in also; whoever has done this deservesto be hanged.” The poor fiddlers being disconcerted,slunk away, while Allan, who had taken the reeds fromhis pipes, gained the whole profit.Allan having been concerned in a sheep-stealing affairwith a foreign Gipsy, who had lately joined the gang,was obliged to fly for fear of consequences, and he arrivedat Berwick without a penny. In this state of destitutionhe had recourse to his old mode of replenishing his finan¬ces, by enlisting with a spruce young sergeant. Thesergeant, when told he had a slippery eel to hold, repliedwith contempt, “ If he be the devil himself, instead of awandering piper, he shall not escape me.” After Allanhad received his bounty, he ordered him to be strictlywatched ; but Allan appeared so cheerful and happy asthrew them quite off their guard. The sergeant andcorporal readiy consented to enjoy themselves over apot from his bounty-money. Allan having called in afiddler, proposed a threesome reel, and whilst sotting tothe sergeant, discharged a handful of Scotch snuff in hisface, which blinded and nearly suffocated him—andturning quickly round to the corporal, served him in thesame manner, and instantly darting out of the room,accomplished his escape. Allan bent his course towardsUothbury, and dispatching a Gipsy lad for his pipes, hecontinued at Holystone until his return, and then tra¬velled to Hexham, where, being short of cash, with hisusual audacity, he enlisted, and slipped off after receivinghalf of his bounty. Another recruiting sergeant, namedHay, followed in pursuit, and suceeded in securing him :they watched him strictly and next day lodged him inthe guard-house at Newcastle. Allan finding himselfamong strangers, lulled their suspicions by nis goodhumoured jokes, and spending his money freely. Atlength, finding a favourable opportunity, he darted outof the guard-nouse, and away. The first use he madeof his liberty was to recover his pipes, and then deter¬mined to leave the country. But, hearing that hisK17|! brother Bob was confined in Edinburgh Castle for deser-! tion, and would probably be shot, he resolved to attempthis liberation. Having succeeded in obtaining the loanof a miller's clothes, he readily got admission into thecastle, and, by a little duplicity, into the prison where! his brother was, and furnishing him with instruments forescape, and appointing a place of meeting he left thesoldiers enjoying his bountiful generosity. Allan had thepleasure of being soon joined by his brother, and theypressed forward to Dunse. Entering a public-house, theyby a well-told tale about seeking for their master’shorse’s, duped a sergeant, who thought them to two rawcountry lads, enlisted them, and paid them their bounty.At night, having intoxicated the party, they proceeded!on their journey:—Bob being approbensive of beingj pursued, prudently withdrew, and joined a gang of old; friends, while Allan pressed forward to Rothbury. Thesergeant whom he had defrauded at Dunse, discoveringj his retreat manoeuvred so well as to get entrance intothe room where Jemmy was playing. Two soldiersstepped up to him and said, “ We want a tune,” andimmediately commenced dancing, while others securedthe door. At the end of the dance the sergeant cameforward to speak to the soldiers, when Allan flung upthe window and jumped out. Instant chase was givenbut without success, for Jemmy again got clear off.Allan made the best off his way to Carlisle, and havingperformed successfully to a festive party held there, hewas congratulating himself on fortune favouring himonce more ; but while standing at the window of the innhe heard the sound of drum and fife, and discoveringthat it was the party ho had enlisted with at Durham,and seeing them entering the house, not a moment forescape was to be lost. He seized his bundle, and slipingout at the back-door, was soon on the road to Penrith.On the road Allan overtook a company of strollingplayers ;—discovering Allans abilities on the pipes, themanager warmly press' J ‘ ”complied, staying with them about six months, “ livingin clover to-day, and to-morrow counting the chimney-tops for a dinner”—Taking offence, ho induced themanager’s wife to elope with him, carrying off her hus¬band’s best linen, cash, and watch. On reaching Litch-fjeld, they took genteel lodgings, and he commencedTheir vagabond mode18teacher of music, which would have succeeded, had nolihis love of low company, and extravagance frustratedthe scheme. The manager’s with made up her mind toreturn to her husband, and, after they had mutallydivided their cash, Allan took the road to London.CHAP. V.Having arrived at London, through the medium of anacquaintance, he was soon brought into notice, and en¬gaged to many respectable parties. One night, whengoing towards Temple-Bar, he was joined by a youngman, whom he had met at a place of bad repute. Itrained hard, and they walked sharply on together, whenthey met an old man : his companion instantly knockedthe man down, and robbed him of his watch and money :in his hurry he dropped the watch, which, Allan said, hepicked up to return to its owner; but hearing footsteps, hemade oft', forgetting to leave the watch behind. Allan hast¬ened to his lodgings, and packing up his clothes, was sofortunate as to get on board a snip ready to sail; and,having enjoyed a voyage to sea, until the awkward afhiirblew over, he arrived at Portsmouth. On leaving Ports¬mouth, he fell into conversation with a gentleman'scoachman, who oll'ered to give him a cast to South¬hampton for a trifle. Allan instantly agreed, and wasrapidly conveyed along with ease and comfort.—Whenwithin two miles of Southampton, the coachman re¬quested him to alight, lest his master should see him.This was just what Allan wished. He sat still, saying,he had bargained to be carried to Southampton, andunless he was carried there would not pay a farthing.In a counterfeited passion he at length jumped out, andthe coachman, glad to be rid of him, drove ofl, andAllan trudged on towards the town. After walkingthrough the streets, under a heavy rain, he discovereda recruiting party dancing in a public house. Allansoon caught the eye of the sergeant, and he sufferedhimself to be prevailed dn to enlist, having a good partof his bounty-money paid him, so that he might “ foronce live like a prince.” In the morning ho wanderedto another part of the town, and again enlisted. In ashort time he returned to his lodgings to secure a fewarticles he had stolen from on board the ship, when heheard his two serjeants salute each other below, and19conversing about their recruits, he heard one of themexclaim, after describing his person and dress, “ O theScotch villain, he enlisted with me last night, and I willhave him if he be on earth.” A drummer boy play¬ing at marbles near the door, told them the recruit hadgone up stairs. Allan in a moment locked the door, and! knotting the bed clothes together, threw them out of thewindow, having fixed the other end to the bed-postJemmy had just time to slip under the bed, when thej1 soldiers broke open the door, and seeing the state of the| bed clothes, and his hat lying in the yard, immediately! set off in pursuit. The landlord’s daughter coming up: stairs to examine the state of the room, Allan discover-[ ed himself to her, and by a little flattery she was won: over to manoeuvre his escape.On reaching Andover, he entered a public-house, andordered breakfast, during which a man eyed him so1 minutely as to render him very uneasy. The manj stepped out, but before Allan got one hundred yardsfrom the door, he was seized by a party of soldiers, andI immediately taken a prj^oner to the guard-house, andfrom thence was removed to the prison, the officeri observing, that “ a desperate man deserved desperatetreatment.” Allan on viewing his dreary cell, saw therewas no way of escape but by sawing asunder the ironwindow bars which during the night he accomplished.Allan fled with great speed Tor several miles, when he wasobliged to sell his shirt to procure something to eat. Onreaching Salisbury, he again enlisted, and, notwith¬standing the precautions of the party, he deserted on thethird day. On entering a public-house at Devizes, he wasaccosted by the unpleasant salutation, “ Sir, you are myprisoner.” With his usual presence of mind he signedthat he was begging, and acted the dumb man to suchperfection, that the company in the house took his part.Many plans of detection were tried, which Allan continu-i ed to defeat; but after having drank his ale, was pro¬ceeding to the door, when a bucket of water was dashedin his face. This unexpected salute caused him to roarout, “What’s that for;” when the constable instantlyseized, and, after a desperate struggle, had him con¬veyed to the black hole. On examining the prison,he found there was no hope of escape but by the chim¬ney, which he determined to attempt at night. Whilesitting musing, the prison-door was gently opened, and20a female entered and said, " Quick—fly!—no thanks :—my husband may suffer for this negligence; but re¬member Dumfriesand as Allan left the place, horecollected that the gaoler’s daughter, of Dumfries, theSerjeant’s wife, and Ins deliverer, were the same person.Allan, according to his custom, struck across thocountry :—On reaching Darlington, he met with thocelebrated Bet Whiston, who would treat him. Allandiscovering that she had both silver and gold, succeededin intoxicating her, when he emptied her pockets, andpursued his journey. On arriving at Chester-le-Street,he found a number of pitmen raffling for a gun, alterwhich they began to throw for small sums, when Allanoffered to stake ten guineas to five on a single throw.The pitmen agreed, and sent for lucky Geordy Dunn tocast for them ; but Allan dexterously changing tho dico,threw two above him, and instantly swept the table.He reached Newcastle quite big about the dash he wouldcut at Kothbury; but on passing the head of tho Side,he met an old female acquaintance, who invited him toher residence in the Castle Girth. The next day sheabsconded, taking with her the whole of his ill-gottengains, and he was obliged to tramp forward to Morpethwithout a shilling in his pocket. At Morpeth he had re¬course to his old expedient, and enlisted. The sergeantsuspecting whom he had to deal with, had him sworn in,ana directly marched off to his officer at Newcastle. Theofficer being in company, offered to bet fifty pounds tothirty that he should not escape before they reachedhead-quarters at York, He was told not to be too con¬fident, for Allan could double like a fox, and run like ahare. A gentleman accepted the bet, and allowed himto inform his men of tho circumstance, and keep it asecret from Allan. The officer promised to divide hiswinnings between two corporals and two sergeants, towhom Allan was especially entrusted. One corporalwalked before, and the other followed after, with theirmuskets loaded; while a sergeant walked on each sideof him with their swords drawn. Allan being only arecruit, felt indignant at such treatment, and resolvedto escape .at the risk of his life. They reached Borough-bridge before an opportunity presented itself. As theywere passing by tho side of a wood, Allan observed thathe would be under the necessity of troubling them for aminute; his guards accordingly drew up a few paces21before him. Pretending to unbutton, he stooped down,and, watching his opportunity, he seized a stone, threwit over their heads, and, in the same moment, dashedinto the wood. One of the corporals fired, and, with theother soldiers and recruits, immediately gave chase;but Allan, accustomed to ranging through the woods,easily eluded his pursuers, and gaining the open country,made the best of his wray to Whitby, where he took ship¬ping, and in twenty hours he landed at Leith. Falling inwith an old acquaintance, a shoemaker, from Alnwick,through whom he was engaged to play for their proces¬sion, and, next day, instead of parading at York, he wasplaying before his majesty King Crispin, through theprincipal streets of Edinburgh.Allan now returned to liothbury and while he wasplaying one night, he was told that four strange men, notsoldiers, were enquiring of a boy, in a low voice, whereJemmy Allan was. Allan suspecting who the strangerswere, new out of the house, and <Eroved to bo a sergeant and thie had enlisted at Morpeth, and discovering the road hohad taken, travelled so expeditiously, that they overtookhim before he reached Hexham. Allan, in an instant,darted forward, pursued by the whole party; but losingtime in leaping a hedge, he was obliged to defend himselfwith his stick;—he again ran off, but when passing overa style, the drummer struck him with his sword upon thewrist. Allan viewed the wound with deep emotion, andthen looking at the drummer, he exclaimed with a min¬strel’s pride, “ Ye ha’e spoiled the best pipe-hand inEngland.”—Allan was now' completely conquered, thesergeant conducted him to Hexham, and lodged him inthe house of correction. But many respectable persons,sorry for his misfortune, interested themselves in pro¬curing his discharge, which was the more readily ob¬tained, as his wound disabled him in future from impos¬ing on the military.Allan retired to Rothbury, and shortly after mamed,and lived with his wife about three years, with wonder¬ful sobriety ; but he became acquainted with one MaryRawlins, a loose, dissolute woman. To support Moll’sAllan bent his course towardsCHAP. VI.22extravagance, ho had recourse to all the thievish tricksof his youth. About this time he stole the iron gear 'from a number of*ploughs ; and having loaded a stout >ass, ho despatched Moll to sell the plunder to an old J1acquaintance in Gateshead. The dealer, however, gave 11her only a trifle for the whole lot, which so exasperated |1Allan, that he vowed to be revenged. Borrowing three Igalloways, and accompanied by nis honest partner, hereached I’ipewellgaie betwixt 12 and 1 o’clock at night, 1:|and entered the dealer’s warehouse by means of false I;keys. Striking a light, he and Moll soon filled theempty panniers with old iron. He then slipped oiF, andshe knocked at the house-door. When admitted, shetold tlio dealer that she had good luck, and would sellthe whole by lump, if he would bo generous., The bar¬gain was soon made, and Allan returned exulting inhaving justly recompensed this honest man. At lengthAllan grew weary of Moll, and having secured his pipesand some clean linen, he took up with a gipsy girl,named Nell Clark, thoroughly skilled in the art of de¬ception. Having a plot laid to dupe a ship-captain’swile, whose vessel was lying at the (iuay, Allan impart¬ed his scheme to Nell, who became interestedly activein its execution. Discovering the captain on shore,Allan paid his wife a visit on board—Being previouslyacquainted, Allan soon persuaded her to elope with him.She was true to her appointment, carrying two largebundles of clothes and other valuables. Nell acting asa servant, took the bundles, and Allan, after walking alittle way up the Quay, bid the captain’s wife wait tillho entered a public-house for his pipes; and going in atone door, and out at the other which led into the entry,where Noll was waiting, they proceeded to their lodg¬ings, and spent the night in drinking. Having sold theclothes, they fled to Sunderland, where they spent theirill-gotten gains. One night Nell came home greatlyhurried, and raising Allan out of bed insisted on movingoff. When on the road to Newcastle, Allan enquired thereason for such haste. Nell answered, “ A purse of goldand a watch are worth preserving.” On reaching New-castle, Nell bought him a suit ot new clothes, and thendetermined to enjoy herself. One evening Nell enteredtheir lodgings, and said, “Now, my man, Jemmy, 1 mready to go.” He suspected all was not right, and pack¬ing up his pipes and clothes, they proceeded to Morpeth.23Stopping at a spring to drink. Allan was preparing therim of Ins hat for that purpose, when Noll thrust a mas¬sive silver tankard into his hand, saying, “Fill it halffull of water, and I’ll add as much brandy to hansel ournew jug.” Apprehensive of pursuit, Allan pushed on toRothbury, where he shortly after borrowed a mare ofMr J. Brown, and being apprehended, was tried at theMoot-hall, found guilty, and condemned to be marke4 inthe hand, which by the influence of the Duke of NoHh-umberland, was performed at the bar by a cold iron.After this Allan resided in North Shields, for severalyears, playing at assemblies^ and at night as a wait—cluring which time he extensively carried on the practiceof horse-stealing : whenever he was in want, he paid avisit to the south of Scotland, and borrowed one. Anopportunity offering of borrowing one nearer home, hecould not resist the temptation. One evening after play¬ing at the sign of the Dun Cow, Quayside, Newcastle, hestole a bay horse from Mr Robinson, of Gateshead. Twodays after he was apprehended at Jedburgh, and com¬mitted to Durham gaol. At the following assizes, heldi August, 1803, he was found guilty, and received sentenceof death, but it was commuted to transportation for life,j which was mitigated for perpetual imprisonment. liei was confined about seven years, and then removed toj the house of correction, where he died on the 13th Nov.118I0, aged 77. At the influence of some gentleman apardon was obtained, but it did not arrive till after hisdeath. This document, which is curious as being oneof the first official papers signed by Geo. IV. is possessedby Mr John Bell, Gateshead.“All ye whom Music’s charms inspire,Who skilful Minstrels do admire,—All ye whom bagpipe lilts can fire,'Tween Wear and Tweed,Come strike with me the mournful lyre,For ALLAN'S dead!“ No more, where Coquct's stream doth glide,{shall we view JEMMY in his pride,With bagpipe buckled to his side,And nymphs and swainsIn groups collect, at even-tide,To hear his strains.“ When elbow mov’d, and bellows blew.On green or lioor the dancer^ Hew,la many turns ran through and through,With can'ring canter,And aya their nimble feet beat trueTo his sweet chanter.”24ANECDOTES.fllE MINISTER AND IIIS THREE SONS.A JOLLT dame who kept the principal caravansary atGreenlaw, in Berwickshire, had the honour to receiveunder her roof a very worthy clergyman, with threesons of the same profession, each having a cure of souls;be it said, in passing, none of the reverend laity werereckoned powerful in the pulpit. After dinner, theworthy senior, in the pride of his heart, asked MrsBuchan whether she ever had such a party in her housebefore. “ Here sit I,” said he, “a placed minister of thekirk of Scotland, and here sit my three sons, each aplaced minister of the same kirk.—Confess, LuckioBuchan, you never had such a party in your house be¬fore. ” The question was not premised by any invitationto sit down and take a glass of wine or the like, so MrsB. answered dryly, “ Indeed Sir, I cannSt just say thatever I had such a party in my house before, except oncoin the forty-five when I had a Highland piper here, withhis three sons, all Highland pipers ; and de’il a springthey could play amang them.THE THISTLE.A few Scotch and English travellers being met to¬gether, an Englishman took it upon him to run downthe Thistle, exclaiming against the empty boast of itsmotto; “ Nemo me impune lacesset; when a Scotchmanpresent observed, “ The Thistle, sir, is the pride of thoScottish nation, but it is nothing in the mouth of an Ass.”mis.