cheap tracts,; Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.* No. XVIJ.THELittleFabulist:ORSelect Fables.(From DODSLEY’s Collcftion.)Recommended to the Perusal of theYouth of both Sexes.i I’Tis the very elTence of a Fable to convey lome Morali or Vfeful Truth beneath the Shadow of an allegory.DUNBAR:i Printed by G.MlltlR :—atwhofe Shop may be had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Bocks, Piftures, Catechifms, Sec.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,OF SCOTLAND!@9!®«IS!';}!©§!S!35S#S:&S:§SiS#©iSELECT FABLES.7kus, every objefl of Creation,Can furnijh bints for contemplation;And from the mcjl minute and mean,A virtuous mind can morals glean.The Miller, his Son, and the Afs.'eTis better to purfue the dictates of one's oven reafon,than attempt to pleafe all mankind.Miller and his Son, were driving theirAfs to the market in order to fell him:and that he might get thither frefh and ingood condition, they drove him on gentlybefore them. They had not proceeded far,when they met a company of travellers.Sure, lay they, you are mighty carefid ofyour Afs: methinks one of you might as,well get up, and ride, as fuffer him to walkon at his cafe, while you trudge after onfoot. In compliance with this advice, theOld Man fet his Son upon the bead;. Andnow, they had fcarce advanced a quarter oia mile further, before they met another com¬pany. You idle young rogue, faid one o:the party, why don’t you you get downand let your poor Father ride ? Upon thisthe Old Man made his Son dilmount, anc,(-3.)got np bimfelf. While they were march¬ing in this manner, a third company beganto infuk the Father. You hard-hearted un¬natural wretch, fay they, how can you fuf-fer that poor lad to wade through the dirt,while you like an alderman, ride at youreafe ? The good-natured Miller flood cor-re&ed, and immediately took his Son upbehind him. And now the next man theymet exclaimed with more vehemence and in¬dignation. than all the refl—Was there everIfuch a couple of lazy boobies ! to overloadin fo unconfcionable a manner, a poor dumbcreature, who is far lefs able to carry themthan they are to carry him ! The complyingOld Man would have been half inclined tomake the trial, had not experience by thistime fufficiently convinced him, that therecannot be a more fruitlefs attempt, than toendeavour to pleafe all mankind.The two Horfes.The ohjeBs of our pride are often the caufe of onr mtjfortunes.TWO Horles were travelling thq roadtogether; one loaded with arfack offlour, the other with a fum of money. Thelatter, proud of his fplendid burden, toffedup his head with an air of confcious luper-iority, and every now and then caft a lookof contempt upon his humble companion.( 4 )In paffing through a wood, they were metby a gang of highwavmen, who immediate¬ly fcized upon the Horfe that was carryingthe treafure : but the fpirited Steed not be¬ing altogether difpofed to Hand fo quietlyas was neceffary for their purpole, they beathim moft unmercifully, and after plunder¬ing him of his boafted load, left him to la¬ment at his leifure the cruel bruiles he hadreceived. Friend, faid his defpifed compa¬nion to him, who had now reafon to triumphin his turn, diftinguilhed pods are oftendangerous to thofe who poffeis them: if youhid served a Miller, as I do, you might havetravelled the road unmolefted.The Cameleon.The different lights in •which things appear to differentjudgements, recommend candour to the opinions of o-thers, even at the time that iue retain cur own.TWO travellers happened on their jour¬ney to be engaged in a warm diipuitabout the colour of the Camelion. One ofthem affirmed, it was blue; that he hadfcen it with his own eyes, upon the nakedbranch of a tree, feeding on the air, in avery clear day. The other flrongly affertedit was green, and that he had viewed it veryclolely and minutely on the broad leaf of a( 5 )fig-tree. Both of them were pofitive and thedifpute, was rifing to a quarrel : but a thirdperfon luckly coming by, they agreed to re¬fer the queltion to his decifion. Gentle¬men faid the arbitrator, with a fmile of greatfelf-fatisfaction you could not have beenmore lucky in your reference, as I happen¬ed to have caught one of them lalt night:butindeedyou are both miftakcn,for thecrea-ture istotally black. Black! impoflible! Nay,quoth the umpire, with great aflurance, thematter may foon be decided, for I immed¬iately inclofed my Cameleon in a little pa¬per box, and here it is. So faying, he drewit out of his pocket, opened his box, and be¬hold it was as white as fnovv. The pofitivedifputants looked equally iurprited, and e-qually confounded, while the fagacious rep-ptile, affuming the air of a philofopher, thusadmonifhed them : Ye children of men,learn diffidence and moderation in your op¬inions. ’Tis true, you happen, in the pre-fent inftance, to bead in the right, and haveonly confidercd the fubjett under differentcircumftances : but pray, for the future, al¬low others to have eye-fight as well as your-fclves ; and be candid enough not to con¬demn any man for judging of things as theyappear to his owu view.C 6 )The Wolf and the Lamb.The voimg and artlefs Jhould make caution fapply th'eplace of years and experience.A FLOCK of Sheep were feeding in ameadow, while the Dogs were alleep,and their Shepherd at a diftance playing onliis pipe beneath the fhade of a fpreadingelm. A young unexperienced Lamb ob¬serving a half-ftarved Wolf peeping throughthe pales of the inclofure, entered into con-verfation with him. Pray what are youSeeking for here ? faid the Lamb. I amlooking replied the Wolf, for fome tendergrafs; for nothing you know is more plea-fant than to feed in a frefli pafture, and toSlake one’s thirft at a cryftal dream : bothwhich I perceive you enjoy within thefepales in their utmoft perfedtion. Happycreature ! continued he, how much I envyyour lot! who are, in full poflefEon of themtmoft I defire : for philofophy has longtaught me to be fatisfied with a little. JtSeems then, returned the Lamb, thofe whofay you feed on flefh, accufe you falfely,fince a little grafs will eafily content you. Ifthis be true, let us for the future live likebrethren, and feed together. So faying, theSimple Lamb imprudently crept thro’ thefence, and became at once a prey to our pre¬tended philofopher, and a facrifice to hisown inexperience and credulity.Ifhe Fox and the Bramble.We Jhould bear iuith patience a /mail evil, luhsn it itcomeEled -with a greater goad,A FOX, clofely purfued by a pack ofDogs, took flicker under the covertof n Bramble. He rejoiced in this afylumand, for a while, was very happy : but foonfound, that if he attemped toftir,he was woun¬ded by thorns and prickles on every fide.However making a virtue of necefiity he for-oore to complain; and comforted himfelf with,reflecting, that no blifs is perfect; that goodand evil are mixed, and flow from the famefountain. Thde Briars indeed, faid he, willtear my fkin a little, yet they keep off theDogs. For the fake of the good then, letme bear the evil with patience : each bitterhas its fweet; and thefe Brambles, thoughthey wound my flefh, preferve my life fromdanger.The Falcon and the Hen.Different kinds of experience account for different kindsof conduct.DIFFERENT circumftances make thefame aftion right or wrong, a virtueor a vice.Of all the creatures I ever knew, faid aFalcon to a Hen, you arc certainly the moflungrateful. What inftance of ingratitude,replied the Hen, can youjuftly charge uponme ? The greateft, returned the Falcon ; in-( 8 )gratitude to your higheft benefa&ors, Mea.Do they not feed you every day, and fhel-ter you every night? Nevertheiefs, whenthey endeavour to court you to them, youungratefully forget all their kindnefs, andfly from them as from an enemy. Now I,\yho am wild by nature, and no way obligedto them ; yet upon the leaft of their careflesI fuffer myfelf to be taken, and go, or come,at their command. All this is very true,replied the Hen, but there may be a luffi- |cients reafon both for my fear, and your fa-1miliarity. I believe you never faw a fingle liFalcon roafling at the fire ; whereas l have |teen a hundred Hens trufled for that pur-pofe.The Travellers and the Money-bag.We cannot reafonakly expeU thofe to bear apart in our iiUfortuney xuhcmive never permitted toJhare in ourprqfperity.AS two Men were travelling on the road,one of them efpied a Bag of Moneylying on the ground, and picking it up, Iam in luck this morning, faid he, I havefound a Bag of Money. Yes, returned theother; though, methinks you fhould notfay I, but We have found it: for when twofriends are travelling together, they oughtequally to (lure in any accidental good for¬tune that may happen to attend thcan. No( 9 )1|rejoined tl-e former, it was I that found it’and I mud infift upon keeping it. He hadno fooner fpoken the words, then they werealarmed with a hue and cry after a thief whohad that morning taken a purfe upon theroad. Lord, fays the finder, this is extreme¬ly unfortunate ; we fhall certainly be feized.Good Sir, teplied the other, be pleafed notto fay We, but I: as you would not allowme a (hare in the prize, you have no rightto make me a partner in the punifhment.The difeontented Afs.We greatly diminijh the happir.efs qf life, by underva.'luing all that is fhort cf perfettion.IN the depth of winter a poor Afs prayedheartily for the fpring, that he might ex¬change a cold lodging, and a heartleis trufsof ftraw, for a little warm weather, and amouthful of frcfli grafs. In a fhort time,according to his with, the warm weather 8cthe frefh grafs came on; but brought withthem fo much toil and bufinefs, that he wasfoon as weary of the fpring as before of thewinter; and he now became impatient forthe approach of fummer. Summer arrives:but the heat, the harveft work, and otherdrudgeried and inconveniencies of thefon, fet him as far from happinefs asbefore ; which he now flattered himfelfwould be found in the plenty of autumn.( 10 )But liere too he is difappointed ; for whatwith the carrying of apples, roots, fuel forthe winter, and other provifions, he wasin autumn more fatigued than ever. Hav¬ing thus trod round the circles of the year,in a courfe of refllefs labour, uneafinefs anddifappointment, and found no feafon, norffation of life, without its bufincfs and itstrouble, be was forced at lafl to acquiefce inthe comfottlefs feafon of winter, where his.complaint began: convinced that in thisworld every fituation has its inconvenience.The Two Springs.There ismore to be cxpeciedfrom fedate and filent, thanfrom noijy, turbulunt, and ojlentatious beginnings.TWO Springs, which iffued from the*(ame mountain, began their courfe to¬gether : one of them took her way in a lil-ent and gentle flream, \vhileJthe other rulh-ed along with a founding and rapid current*Sifter, faid the latter, at the rate you move,'you will probably be dried up before youadvance much farther : whereas, for myfelf,I will venture a wager, that within two orthree hundred furlongs I (hall become na¬vigable, and after diftributing commerce &wealth wherever I flow, I fhall majefticaliyproceed to pay my tribute to the ocean : fo ifarewell, dear fifter, and patiently fubmit to I•f!ll-IC 11 )your fate. Her filler made no reply; butcalmly defending to the meadows below,increased her ftream by numberlefs littlerills, which the colle&ed in her progrefs, tiltat length fhe was enabled to rife into a con-fiderable river: whilft the proud Stream,who had the vanity to depend folely uponher own fufiiciency, continued a fhallowbrpok, and was glad at leaft to be helpedforward, by throwing herfelf into the armsof her difpiled filler.The Farmer and his Dog.cJhe greater room there appears for refentment, the tnoiccarefulfhould we be not to accufe an innocent perfon.A FARMER who had juft, ftepped intothe field to mend a gap in one of hisfences, found at his return the cradle, wherehe had left his only Child alleep, turned up-fide down, the clothes all torn and bloody,and his Dog lying near it belmeared alfowith blood. Immediately conceiving thatthe creature had deftroyed his Child, he in-llantly dalhed out his brains with the hat¬chet in his hand : when turning up the cra¬dle, he found his child unhurt, and an enor¬mous Serpent lying dead on the floor, kil¬led by that faithful Dog, whofe courage andfidelity in preferving the life of his Son de-ferved another kind of reward. Thefe af¬fecting circumftances afforded him a (triking( 12 )kffon, how dangerous it is too haftily toThe Owl and the Eagle.Narrow minds think the fyflem of the univerfe fhouldhave been contrived to Juit tbemfelves alone.N Owl fat blinking in the trunk of anhollow tree, and arraigned the bright-nefs of the Sun. What is the ufe of its beams,faid fhe, but to dazzle one’s eyes fo that onecannot fee a Moufe ? For my part, I am ata lofs to conceive for what purpofe fo glar¬ing an objedt was created. We had cer¬tainly been much better without it. O fool!replied an Eagle, perched on a branch ofthe fame tree, to rail at excellence which jthou canft not rafte; ignorant that the faultis not in the Sun but in thyfelf. All, ’tistrue, have not faculties to underftand, norpowers to enjoy the benefit of it: but muffcthe bufinefs and the pleasures of the world be©bftrudtcd, that an Owl may catch Mice ?'The wants and weaknejfes of individuals form the con*neBion offociety.from our wants and infirmities thatX alraoft all the connexions of focietytake their rife.The Blind Man and the Lame.1]il1( >3 )A Blind Man, being flopped in a badpiece of road, meets with a Lame Man, andintreats him to guide him through the dif¬ficulty he was got into. How can I do that,replied the Lame Man, fince I am fcarce a-ble to drag myfelf along ? but as you appearto be very ftrong,ifyou will carry me, we will^feek our fortune together. It will then be my*intereft to warn you of any thing that may ob-ftrudt your way ; your feet fhall be my feet,and my eyes yours. With all my heart, re¬turned the Blind Man ; let us render to eachother our mutual fervices. So taking hislame companion on his back, they by meansof their union, travelled on with lafety andplcalure.The Ant and the Caterpillar.Boys of no wry promifing appearance often become thegreatef meu.AS a Caterpillar was advancing veryflowly along one of the alleys of abeautiful garden, he was met by a pert live¬ly Anr, who tolling up her head with a fcorn-ful air, cried, Prithee get out of the way,thou poor creeping animal, and do not pre-fume to obftruft the paths of thy fuperiors,by wriggling along the road, and befmear-ing the walks appropriated to their footfteps.Poor creature! thou looked like a thinghalf made, which Nature not liking, threw( 14 )by unfinKbed. I could almoft pity thee^ me- :thinks; but it is beneath one of my qualityto talk to fuch mean creatures as thou art:and fo, poor crawling wretch, adieu.The humble Caterpillar, ftruck dumb withthis difdainful language, retired, went towork, wound himlelf up in a filken cell, andat the appointed time came out a beautifulButterfly. Juft as he was lallying forth, heobferved the fcornful Antrpafling by, Proudinfedt, (aid he, flop a moment, and learnfrom the circumftances in which you nowfee me, never to difpife any one for thatcondition in which Providence has thoughtfit to place him ; as there is none fo mean, ,but may one day, either in this ftate or in abetter, be exalted above thofe who lookeddown upon him with unmerited contempt.The Paflenger and the Pilot.fVe are no •where out of the reach of Providence, either topunijh or to protcdl usIT had blown a violent ftorm at fea, andthe whole crew of a large veflel were inimminent danger of (hipwreck. After therolling of the waves were fomewhat abated,a certain Paflenger, who had never been at jjfea before, obferving the Pilot to have ap- Ijpeared wholly unconcerned even in their ||greateft danger, had the curiofity to a(k himwhat death his father died. What death ?( 15 )j; {aid the pilot, why he peri (lied at fea, as myi! grandfather did before him. And are younot afraid of trolling yourfelf to an elementthat has proved thus fatal to your family ?J Afraid ! by no means; why, we muft alldie: is not your father dead ? Yes, but hedied in his bed. And why then are you notafraid of trolling yourfelf to your bed ? Be-jcaufe I am there perfectly fecure. It mayIf be fo, replied the Pilot; but if the hand of^Providence is equally extended over alliplaces, there is no more reafon for me to berl afraid of going to fea, than for you to be a-nfraid of going to bed.The two Foxes.i t We jhould ever guard againjl thofe vices, that are chieflylucident to our times of life; excefs and riot, ivhi/Jl weare young ; and egregious parjimcny, as we grow in'J years.rTWO Foxes formed a ftratagem to en¬ter a hen-roofl: which having fuccefs-!t fully executed, and killed the cock, the hens,aud chickens, they began to feed upon themwith lingular fatisfadion. One of the Foxes,whd was young and inconfiderate, was for^1 devouring them all upon the fpet: the 0-'jjther, who was old and covetous, propofedto referve fome of them lor another time.' For experience child,” faid he, has mademe wife, and I have feen many unexpec-1CC 16 )u ted events fince I came int© the worid.“ Let us provide, therefore, againft whatmay happen, and not confume all oure< ftores at one meal.” “All this is wonder-“ ous wife,” replied the younL Fox; “butfor“ my parr, lam refolved not to ftir till 1 have“ eaten as much as will lerve me a whole i“ week; for who would be mad enough to:return hither ? when is is certain the ow-“ ner of thcfe fowls will watch for us, andl“ if he (liould catch us, would certainly put .“ us to death.” After this fhort difcourfe^ Leach purfued his own fcheme; the youngFox eat till he burft himlelf, and had Icarce-ly ftrength to reach his hole before he died.,The old one, who thought it much betterto deny his appetite for the prefent, and layup provifion for the future, returned the:next day, and was killed by the harmer.Thus every age has its peculiar vice; theyoung fuffer by their infatable third; afterpleafure; and the old, by their incorrigible:and inordinate avarice.The Tortoife and the two Ducks.Curiofity often excites thofe people to kascafidous undertak¬ings, whom vanity and indiferetion render totally unfafor them.VANITY and idle curiofity are qualities,:which generally prove deftru&ive tothole who fuffer themfelvcs to be governedby them.{ i7 )A. TortoUe, weary of paffing her days iaifche fame obfcure corner, conceived a won¬derful inclination to vifit foreign countries.Two Ducks, whom the fimple Tortoife ac¬quainted with hei intention, undertook toloblige her, upon the oceafion. According¬ly they told her, that if (he would fallen her'mouth to the middle of a pole, they wouldiifake the two ends, and tranfport her whi-j^therfoever fhe chole to be conveyed. TheTortoife approved of the expedient; and e-Jillvery thing being prepared, the Ducks be-i::gan their flight with her. They, had not tra-■ !fvelled far in the air, when they were metyfcy a Crow, who enquiring what they wereibearing along, they replied, the Queen of)ithe Tortoifes. The Tortoife, vain of the■anew and unmerited appellation, was goingtto confirm the title, when opening heropiouth for that purpofe, fhe let go her hold,'Hand was dallied to pieces by her fall.The Atbeilf and the Acorn.l| He who disputes the exijlenca of a Deity, willfind him-felf conjut ed by every part of nature.fT was the fool who laid in his heart, ‘Thereis no God : into the breaft of a wife manfuch a thought could never have entered.One of thofe refined reafoners, commonlycalled Minute Philofophers, was fitting atthis eafe beneath the Ihade of a large oak.( i8 )while at his fide the weak branche* of a patB-JIpion trailed upon the ground. This threwjlour great logician into his old track of rea-|foning againft Providence. Is it confident jwith common fenfe, faid he, that infinite■wdfdom fhould create a large and ftately tree*with branches of prodigious ftrength, only •to bear fo fmall and infignificant a fruit asan Acorn ? Or that fo weak a flem, as that oia pumpion, fhould be loaded with fodifpro*portioned a weight ? A child may fee the:absurdity of it. In the midft of this curiomspeculation, downdropt an Acorn, from oneof the higheft branches of the oak, full up¬on his head. How small a trifle may over¬turn the syftems of mighty philosop^rs !Struck with the accident, he could not helpcrying out, How providential it is that thiswas not a pumpion !The Cat and the old Rat.Repeated injiances of artifice create a fufpision, that isour guard againjl it.A CERTAIN Cat had made such unmer¬ciful havock among the vermin of herneighbourhood, that not a Angle Rat orMouse dared venture to appear abroad. Pusswas soon convinced, that if affairs remained intheir present fituation, flic muft be totallyunsupplied with provilion. After maturedeliberation, therefore, (he resolved to have( 19 )•feourse t® Rratagem. For this purpose, (liejspended herself from a hook with her headownwards, pretending to be dead. TheHats and Mice observing her, as they peep¬'d from their holes, in this dangling attituderoncluded (lie was hanged for some misde¬meanour ; and with great joy immediately>i Hied forth in quell of their prey. Pufs, asli ion as a fufncienl number were collected to-ilether, quitting her hold, dropped into thef. id ft of them; and very few had the for-:ane to make good their retreat. This ar¬tifice having fuccecded fo well, fhe was en¬couraged to try the event of afecond. Ac-^jbrdingly (lie whitened her coat all over, byijolling herfelf in a heap of flower, and intihis difguife lay concealed in the bottom ofp meal-tub. TThis ftratagem was executed|n general with the lame efteflas the former.Jfiut an old experienced Rat, altogether aspunning as his adverfary, was not fo eafilyifpnfnarea. I dont much like, faid he, thatIvhite heap yonder; fomething whifpers me,here is mifehief concealed under it. ’Fisrue, *t may be meal; but it may likewifeoe fomething that 1 (hall not reliih quite foveil. There can be no harm, at leal!, in^keeping at a proper diftance : for caution,ill am tire, is the parent of fecunty.C 20 )I kThe Lynx and the Mole.W'r fijaultf ufe the talents that are alloted, emd are m«{l jifuliable to our fpecies ; infeasf of dfparaging thofe/a- \culties, that ore as properly adapted to another .UNDER the covert of a thick wood, at 1the foot of a tree, as a Lynx lay whet- ['ting his teeth, and waiting for his prey, he Lelpied a Mole, half buried under a hillock. Mof her own raifmg. Alas, pjor creature, :faid the Lynx, how much I pity thee ! Sure¬ly Jupiter has been very unkind, to debar ■thee from the light of the day which rejoices *the whole creation. Thou art certainly not 1above half alive ; and it would be doing '*thee a fervice to put an end to fo unanimat-'ed a being. 1 thank you for your kindnefs,replied the Mole, but 1 think 1 have full as 1much vivacity as mv date and circumftances jrequire. For the reft I am perfedtly wellcontented with the faculties which Jupiter rhas allotted me, who 1 am lure wants not jiour direction in diftributing his gifts with ipropriety. 1 have not, ’tis true your pier- |ing eyes; but l have ears which anfwers allmy purpofes full as well. Hark 1 for exam- Ipie, I am warned, by a noile which 1 hear ||behind you, to fly from danger. So faying, |he flunk into the earth ; while a javelin from «the arm of a hunter pierced the quick-fight- 1Lynx to the heart.^LION, havingI11 The tick Lion, the Fox, and the Wolf.\feti, who meditate mifchief fuggefl the fame to others ,*• t and generally pay dearfor their forward gratifications,furfeited himfelf withfeafting too luxurioully on the carcalet f a Wild Boar, was feized with a violenthad dangerous difordcr. The beads of the)reft flocked in great numbers to pay their;fpe<flsupon theoccafion,and fcarce onewasalbfent, except the Fox. The Woif, an ill-njatured and malicious bead, feized this op-lortunity to accufe the Fox ot pride, ingra-utude, and difaffedtion to his majefty. Inlie midft of his invedlive, the fox entered ;: rho having heard part of the Wolf’s accu¬sation, and obferving the Lion’s countenance:ip be kindled into wrath, thus adroitly ex-hufed himfelf, and retorted upon hisaccufcr.nfee many here, who, with mere lip-fervice,vave pretended to (hew you their loyalty ;hut for my part, from the moment 1 heardf your majefty’s illnefs, neglecting ufelefsiiompliments, 1 employed mylelf day andf|ight to enquire among the mod learnedf hyficians, an infallible remedy for yours ifeafe, and have at length happily been in-qormed of one. It is a plaifter made of part] f a Wolf’s fkin, taken warm from his back,p nd laid to your majedy’s domach- Thishfemedy was no looner propcled, than it was)|ietermined lhat the experiment fliould beC 22 )tried: and whilft rbe operation was perforring, the Fox, with a farcaftic fmile, whitpced this useful maxim in the WolPs ear—you would be safe from harm yourself, leafor the future not to meditate mischief agaiiothers.The Lion, the Bear, the Monkey, Sc the FoIt is often more prudent to fupprcfs our fentiments,either to fatter or to rail.HP HE Tyrant of the foreft iffued a prclamation, commanding all his suije<5ts to repair immediately to his royal de iAmong the reft the Bear made his appea :ance; but pretending to be offended withe fleams which iflued from the monarch:appartments, he was imprudent enough ithold his nofe in his majefty’s prefence. Tl [infolence was fo highly relented, that t :Lion in a rage laid him dead at his feoThe Mopkey, obferving what had paffe itrembled for his carcafe ; and attempted tconciliate favour by the moft abject flattenHe began with protefting, that for his pqhe thought the Apartments were perfum twith Arabian fpices; and exclaiming againthe rudenefs of the Bear, admired the beaisty of his majefty’s paws, fo happily formerhe laid, to correct the infolence of clowisThis fulfome adulation, inftt»d of beingceived as he expe<fted, preyed no lefs offq( 23 )five than the rudenefs of the Bear ; and thecourtly Monkey was in like manner extend¬ed by the fide of Sir Bruin. And now his ma~jefty caft his eyes upon the Fo*. Well,Reynard, faid he, and what fcent do youdifcover here ? Great prince, replied' theCautious Fox, my nofe was never efteemedmy moft diftinguifhing fenfc ; and at pre¬lent, 1 would by no means venture to givemy opinion, as 1 have unfortunately got aterrible cold.The Fox and the Cat.'Pcrfons may write fine fyfiems of morality, who neverpraBife4 a fingle virtue.NOTHING is more common than formen to condemn the very fame actionsin others, which they praftife themfelveswhenever occafion offers.A Fox and a Cat having made a party totravel together, beguiled the tedioufnefs oftheir journey by a variety of philolophicalconverfations. Of all the moral virtues,exclaimed Reynard, mercy is fure the no-bled ! What fay you, my fage friend, is itnot fo ? Undoubtedly, replied the Cat, witha moft demure countenance; nothing ismore becoming, in a creature of any ienfi-bility, than a compaflionare difpofition.While they were thus moralizing, and mu-f 24 )tually complimenting each other en the wifJjdom of their refpeftive rcfledlions, a Wolf|darted out from a wood upon a flock of|Sheep, which were feeding in an adjacent jmeadow ; and without being in the leaft af-fe&ed by the moving lamentations of a poorLamb, devoured it before their eyes. Hor¬rible cruelty ! exclaimed the Cat; why doeshe not feed on vermin, inftead of makinghis barbarous meals on fuch innocent crea¬tures ? Reynard agreed with his friend inthe obfervation ; to which he added feveralvery pathetic remarks on the odiousness ofa sanguinary temper. Their indignation Siwas rising in its warmth and zeal, whenthey arrived at a little cottage by the wayfide ; where the tender-hearted Reynardimmediately caft his eye upon a fine Cockthat was flrutting about the yard. And nowadieu moralizing : he leaped over the pales,and without any sort of scruple, demolifh-ed his prize in an inftant. In the meanwhile, a plump Mouse, which ran out ofthe ftable, totally put to flight our Cat’sphilosophy, who fell to the repaft withoutthe leaft commiseration.FINIS.Printed by Q MUltr, Duniai •