xa 2HISTORYOr the Life and Death ofFMR ROS^iMONl),Coacubine to King HENRY IF.HBWXNOrw Queen EJtanor plotted to deftroy FairIRofamond, to prevent which, fixe was remo-ived to a (lately Bower, at Woodftock, n earOxford ; and while the King wa* in France,Fair Rofamond was poifoned by his Queen.EDINBURGH iioted and Sold by J. Moreen, Colgate, and atNo 29, Leith Strtet,THEHISTORYOf the Life and Death ofFAIR ROSAMOND,Concubine to King HENRY II.Fair Rosamond's Parentage and PerfeSUa.T^' RE fprung from that ancient and 11hie houfe of Cliribrds, a danafel narriRofamond, d ughter to the Lord /alter Clford, her beaut was couched in her same, 1was nature s mafter piece and one of the faeft rofes that ever llouriftied on earth.his lad? as fhe grew in years, Ihe grewfavour, each year adding to her perfe&ion ; a.when fhe attained to maturity her fame fpreinto many foreign pUces, whereby file was nonly the public and common difcourfe of ofown nation but even the table talk of remav countries and foreign people. Her modelwas fuch, that fhe fought, by all me^pt to allsthat far-fpread rumour of her* beauty, by a re¬tired life; but the more (he thought to extia-guifh and quench the report, by iequederingherfelf from the eyes of men, the more Ebe wasfpoken of, the farther were her praifes blown.At length her beauty reached the years of theking, through the inadvcrtance of her uncle,who hearing his Majefty one day highly extolthe features of a lady, faid, ‘I have a neice,though but youny, who in my frail judgementof beauty as far furpafles this lady, as (he excelsthe meaneft beaut-- of your court; her eyesfparkle like two twin ftars, with fuch piercingrays, that dazel thofe who venture to gaze onthem; and her eye-brows ftiine like jet, andare arched like a rain-bow a fpring of rofes andlillies are in her cheeks, fo mixed, that kindj) nature never before made fo fair a raix'ure ofthe pureft white and red; her nofe a little ri¬ling exceeds that which Appelles painted Venuswith as chief ornament of her beauty : her lipsexceed the coral whenever fo finely poliftied,foft as the crimfon velvet, hiding two rows oforient pearl; her chin, which with a ittle dim¬ple adds beauty to the reft, and makes her facea per’eft oval; her rifinc breafts are like twohills of fupw, and her pr tty hands excels inwhitenefs the alabafte , and fo Ipread andbranched with various kinds of azure that,themotion of the blood in them may be feen thro’the loft trapfparent fkin, t# be brief, foe is themafter-piece of nature, who when Hie tn deher cr’yd a lucky hit, and threw away themould, that none fo lovely, fair and charmingmight corns after to dazzle the eyes ofmei^ andwound their hearts'*This difcription raifed fuch a flame in hisMajefly s brtaft, that h* demanded to know inwhat comer of the kingdom fo great a beaut?could be hid ? To this the courtier who per*ceived he had gone too far, and that the kingbegan tp be enamoured at the bare report, wouldfain have drawn in his words again, anfwcred,that indeed he had made this relation only tofet put a perfect beauty to the life, begping hispardon and excufe: But the king perceiving bythe coldnefs of this reply there was more thanordinary in it, grew angry and told him hetrifled with him and charged him on his allegi¬ance to tell him the truth: fo fearing theKing's difpleafure, the courtier plainly faid.There is fuch a lady, daughter to Walter LordClifford and of my After his lady, living atGodftow. in Oxfordfbire, of whom many worth-thy pt ' fons have been enamoured, and foughther in marriage, but have been refufed, becaufeher tender heart is vet incapable of love: andthis I affirm is the truth on the ferfeitnre ofmy head: As for th? name of this fair creatureit is Rofamond and indeed (lie is rightly nam¬ed, fo; {he is. if i have any fkill in he uty, thepeerieis rofe in the world, Whilft they werethus aifcourfing, Queen Eleanor came to vifitthe King, which baoke off any further talk a-bout her, nor needed the King any more, forhis heart was poilefs‘d with a great defire to feeher, that he cou d hardly deep at night for think-mg of her.! The king having received fair Rofamond a let.jr, read it over and over; and is it fo, laysle king, does Refamond rejoice at my facaefs.id pray for my proiperity an ! fa.e return .hen {he’s my own, and on that account! H hatt»A home.1 AU other loves henceforth VW decline,For now the rofe of all the world is mine.CHAP, HI.kw the lady Clifford difcovered the love that1 the ifing badjor her daughter; and after a■ fevere reprimand fent her away ; but they| bearing where Jhewas, caujtd her to be broughtto court,rKE king’* affairs keeping him in Normandylonger ner he 'espeaed, It happened that ladyClifford going into her daughter s clofet acciden-.:ly efnied the king’s letter to Rofamond. atwhich being extremely furprized, as kno*1!]Snothing of what had paffedbetween tnem, Wentand (hewed it to her hufband the Lora Cliffordwho had a very tender love for Rofamond, atwhich he was exceedingly difturbed; then theyreturned both together to their daughter s cham¬ber, where upbraiding her with beiag a «1U*pet to the king, and taking away the comfort otheir lives, who looked upon her as their chie.-' eft treafure ; file kneeled dowa upon her knees,and folemly protefted to them that ftie was lUha pure and unblemiftied virgin, i.his folemnproteftation Comewbat appealed her father s ajr. * 1■ \ 10 )gcr, Y/.ie thus repli§4» My only ^hilo, rayKofstnon-u toe ftaff sr)ti comfort of thy fat!a^e, I am $iad to fed thou art ftillinnocentme acvifc thee, chiJ4 u> We a care., and.thy:ff .'ttfeas thou art: gpze j0t tooson the brisht fun'of honour, leh it fljou'd rthe, blind to .thy <3ivn deftruaion . Bor flrothou come to glitter near the' tbrofe, it wonly h With a faint reflecltion, that would \neither life, por heat. honourit ne to here it faid, that Rofamond is King hrysconcuojne and for um awful] eve hsher Virtue! Confider, child, if chaflity be gthere s nothing pmife worthy in wo^en ; pt* "ot thyfelf hi being 'beautiful !tis . falfely caiio I thou art hot chaffe For tho’1 thy body appinever fo fair, vet without ehaftity it cannotbeautifu Heaatyis like the flowers of the fnrifair 10 the fight, bat quickf^fade ayay, but cltity is like the liars of heaven that »lv avs flywith a refulgewt brightnels. There is a difFjence between love and'luft, one is as-ar didrl U\^le oth**‘ ^S' ^eayen' is Irbm ¥§11: •- no-the -King’s addfeffts'un-o thee.'hre'tHelit, and not of love die has a'queen to whdins love is iue , and thifrle what\u jealous ratVtui fill her bread,' when 'file Sibil' know therobbeft her «f her king; For jealoUfy is a Heto the mind, and ^terror tq'the cfelitierice,'futprefiing reafoh and cscitingfeage, : l‘hink the*my cnild, what *tis thfe -caft'ft:dxpe&,''in fhv jinlawful love, or rather liift.' THou wilt Be’ fur,thy virtue, tby'hondur, t!iy chdftiLvJ thy'repu-tution, afe what is more, perhaps thy life; anc)Aiofcis moil ot alertly foul without »l»ontoo«:£ therefore thou wilt cfcange thy virgin Ute,will take care to get a huftand for thee, wA'hoiu thou may’ll liue hooemy ami thot perhapmay bo tho -oaua to quoneb that 6r. of M thybeauty nuw nave kindled in the King -thee life, and us thy parents eafy. _Fair RofeTnond gave great attention to heFather's words, alluring them with £«ataffev-erations, that flie would, to the utmoft ^power, avoid whatevep filould b-i difpleafing toLm. But that as to the changingher conditnrfile huably did defire to be exeufed, for ihe hada mind to live a virgin. _ r _ , •,Her mother thereupon f«d Ro.-.trio^d .would be much more to our fatufafoon 9Joeyou married, an'dyou well know LorA¥j ^al-ters lias a affion for you, a nobleman of an J'ftrious family, ho is ». *«W>!rin the kingdom; and therefore do not kand nyour own Tight left you thereby do make us^boihbelieve you have too great kindnefe for theK'to this Rofamond anfwtred file would bejffiU-inc to give them nil the fatisfa&ion they eared but hoped they would not put her upon hurt¬ing Lord Vits tValters, however *ell aecom.plifhed- he might be ; but that it was enwgHentertain him when he came, her fatter toiher as to that all things Ihouh -be managed to lieifatisfa&ion; but when he came to court her, *ieexneaed that file would treat him us a peiionworth? of her love; f#r he ihokli Pienfure <.hedu^y that fte paid to him, by the reffea mef 12 )*otlkl Vw to that j.un, entleittc*. To ivk1,K °f ;v o^iv-red, lh» l ,IJed flie Oiould i«oah. be wanting in her i ty.ont vvhire thegeod Lo.rd Clifford and his la*were pleated in their,,defijned propofals of th* 1ciaagh* r, King H-nryre turned from Norntcdhaving cancmded njbfiis buiiref* then* and nat ia peae» with France and nith his fons. hifair ttcfatnond v*rv indifferent to the li-rjljptz Walter -lio by prrrriflian of her fath«|had begun to court her, muff undergo the King'iJ'efentiBent: bor ftie was fu # whoever courtedh*r, »uft undergo the anger of the King, rhi*was fuch a blow to the young lord, asr quicklycooled bis courage, for he had no mind to havethe King in his rival. But before he Went a-way he told her father how he had been diimifl-ed by Rofimond; who then perceiving therew as no trufting to what (lie faid refolvea to fendtier away as private as pcfiible. In a few daysevery thing was prepared for her journey, and&e and her falfe governefa took coach and wentto a kinfinun’s in Cornwall, in order to remainthere undifeoven-d, until the King’s affeSions■»ere diverted and placed upon fosae other me-riterious beauty.But when a wolf is fet to keep the flieep, theyere net like to be long fafet for Alethea, bribedlarge?! by ^nS Henry, was all thii while thegrand intriguer of this love affair ; who took anopportunity of fending to the kinga large accountof all things that had paffed, and where theyWere fent to.King Henry having this inteiii .ence, refolvcd< 5 ) rl J .It was not long e*er the king refolved to in¬vite himlelf to her father's honfe, and to thatend took a progrefs into Oxfordfhirc, attendedonly with fome trufty courtiers, and was highlywelcomed bv the Lord Clifford and his lady,who feared what his defign was, ordered theirdaughter not to appear in his prefence ; But theKing ordering one of his attendants to enquireof the fervants to know if the was at home, andfindinjr (he was, demanded to fee her vowing hewould not dine till he had. So that all theirexeufes of illnefs. and the like, availed nothing ;then {he was ordered to put on her beft appareland come down, tha^ fhe might pay her duty tothe king, which (he did in the moll courtly man¬ner, her blufhes, if poflible, adding to her beau¬ty : S« that at the firft fight (he appeared in hiseyes like an angel, whereupon he eagerly faint¬ed her: and dinner being placed on the tsble, hacommanded, flie fliould fit down, caufing her tobe placed dire&ly over againil him, on, * holeprettv eyes he had fo long gazed, that he forgotoften times to eat, taking in a long draught otlove, which in the end proved the mm .airRolamond by the jeidoufy of his furious Queen,as the fequel of this hiltory will Ihew.CHAP. II.Hotu King Henry <wvn the love of fair Rafanwndby t 'cb prefents, and bribed her Governefs tojavour bis deftgns, &e.H^HE king having been highly entertained bythe Lord Clifford, father to fair Rofamcnd,f ; ( 6 )Jcr tnree tiays together, he had feveral oppor-tumfes to diicourfc ;a private with the charm¬ing virgin, whom he fo much won upon prefentsoi rich jewels, and ether coftiy things, that hefaueu an ambition in her tender bre it, that be*7.ore it «jvas a Granger to; often protefbing thatit the v'jeen ihoulcl die he would raife her tothecrown He alfo’beitawcd hu gold liberally -nher tutorek, or woman who had the care of herwhich fo bbnded her eye , and prevailed over«er conefcience, that flie promifed him to do all■wat was in her power with the yonng lady tofit thcr h's V/iihed for happlnefs. And lo havinggiven Rore of gold to all the fervants, he tooklus lo&vo of his fair mi ft refs with many endear¬ing kiiles, wh en he-had no fooner cone, hut heheard troubles were rifen ag»in ia the territor¬ies bayond the fea», which required his pfelenceto ailay and CettW.I'he king fcoa raifing a gallant army paflbd^intq^iance, the terror of vhofe name lo daun*■ 'W‘ his enembs. that they quickly fled, levying, the ti^r.s and [ bees, they had furpriied. to hisobedience. Yet in the midfl of wurs. blood, andslaughter jus l,vs prevailed and made himwrite to fair Rblanuond in tbefe words.Fair Lady, ,TNbP. RsaU by the remembrance of year in¬comparable beauty, to which your king is acaptive; 1 have neverthelefs made my enemiesiear the efTt&s of my anger, and mourn in tears®f blood, my hafly parting from you. Guruianangel whofe bright eyes being l\i!l beforeraa dec 7 )e a conqueror wherefoever I came: ’Tis youhorn I nold dearer than all the glories of a|own; permit me, fair one, to alfare you myjky (hall not be long, and when 1 return, i 11lace you in a glittering fphere .above the reach3: thofe you dread; in the mean whilei let aLguifliing king prevail in his fuit, when he begsi line or two of comfort from your dear hand.' HENRY R.} This letter iomewhn furprifed the young la-y and filled her -vhh tears and irrefolutian,«or well knowing how fire Ihould behave herfelffla fo weighty a matter,and nearly concerning her|ood name, fame, and cnarafter ; yet the glitter¬ing prolnea of greatntfs and honour, pleadingiin the other hand, Ihe refolved to Ihew it to■ier into' efs. wlro as foon as Ihe read fmil-|ng in her face, laid, my dear child,- you maynow ell fee that all the happy coadeUrcionsjij, ree, that fo excellent a b auty ns your’s- muftpot be enjoved by a mean period ; ■ ou‘re madevor a queen and m yielding now to fortune rro-mifeu, is a large dtp tow rda the throne - Youm y perceive Joviis defeending ill a golden fhow-er, to make you more rich and glorious than i-anna thougli (he was the daughter of a king. Layptfide your blufhts ■, and fend him a comfortableanfwer: let not too much modefty hinder youof io great un’ honour, as being milirefs of fo no-ble a king. ■This made her blufhes crime and go, longftruggling within lier, till at laft this crafty ma-tronr ufed fo many prefimg arguments, that ihdreta ned the following aafwer: s >Great Si-r,' ’T’V/ AS with no fmall aftpmfiiment I readletter fubferibed with your royal name arto me, as 1 fuppofe from your own hamput am altogether ignorant of any fuch powomme as to make a captive of my king; Bt. ouH not, l.ccnfefs, read without feme pleafurthat my idea-, as your Majefty is pleafei to flatter me, ftiould have an influence in making vou;JWajefly a great conqueror over ail youenemies- Yet, may it pleafe your Majefty,cannot but in ter eft myfelf fo much vin your af.fairs, as to rejoice w'hen you are vicarious, ancbe glad of your fuccefs. But as to my beingplaced tu a glittering fphere, above the reachof thofe I dread, I neither underftand it, i or dare* s|ve «ayfelf the liberty of thinking what yousMajefty’* meaning; iway be therein: But as {knov/ I deferve no fuck promotion, fo neitherdo I defire it. And as to my own innocence;iq your Majefty’s royal.goodneis is fufiicicnt tokeep me, from any thing intended bv it, that i*xncompatabie with the ftrifteft rqlea of honourand virtue ;ltd therefore praying for yourMajefty s happiaefs, profperity and fafe return;I bog leavp with the molt humble fnbmiflion tofubfenbe myfelf !Your Majefty’s ever dutiful,and moft obedient fubjekt,and humble vaiTal,ROSAMOND.3,went to get Rofatnond to bed, as ftie wont to do;And in about an hour’s time Ihe returned andtold the king that if he pleated to follow her, Ihewould bring him where Rofamond was in bedand faft afleep.His majefty needed no perfuafions to follow her,but went immediately to the chamber, wherehe foon difrobed himfelf; and Alethea, takingher leave, left him to manage the bufinefs withR.ofamond, according to his own difcretion.The king having (hut the door, and locked itafter Alethea went to bed toRofamond who wasfaft adeep, not dreaming of the treacherous partthat her goveVnefs had played. The king notwilling prefently to awake his charming miltrefs,I ty ftill; laying clofer to her than Alethea ufedto do, file awaked of herlelf and not know ing but’twas Alethea that was in bed, laid, I prithee,^overncfs (for fo fhe ufed to call her, and fuchihe was) lie further off a little, you crowd foclofe, as if you’d thurft me out of bed.And now the king thought it a proper time tofpeak to her, and let her know *tho it was thatwas her bedfellow ; And thereupon he bt ipokoher thus; My deareft Rofamond, it is not yourgoVernefs, it is your k.ng that lies fo clofe toyou (and thereupon embraced hex in his arms)and fure you need not fear that 1 Would thurftyou out of bed.It is not eafy to imagine how grea t was the ftn>prize that Rofamond was in at this difcovery;fain ihe would have gotten out of bed ; tbe Kingheld her faft and would not let her go. Sirfaid (he, ! could not think you would have ferv-ed me thus, when you aflured me that in yo.urcourt I flioud be fafe and free.Ye-:, faid the King I know ’ promifed it; thatto a title l *iU make my word good, for youfhall be free and fafe as ever,li it be fo. 'faidihe: Pray let go, and give meleave to rife.No, faid the King then i fliould break myword, vou cannot be more fafe than in my arms,for now 1 aj* mre nothing c .n injure you.Rolamo’-d now found refiliaftce would be invain, ami that fince things had gone fo far. flichad better oblige the king than to deny him that-which he wtu’d taftc wheth -r ft>o fliould or not,and thereupon, without refiftin,.; any. further,luff*ring the king to do what he pleafed.For a time tfceie two happy lovers often metail* njoyed their wanton daliances in private;but at length it reached the ears of the Queen,who compiained to the king of fuch ufage,CHAP IY»//uw S{ueen Elearor plotted todtjlroy Rofamond,to prevent which,.jfbemas removed to o jiatelybo-',. r bmlt for her at Wooqjlock'. Uow-ibeifplicen to further her.de/tgn cauftd her Jonhtu bard to raije a iver agatriji his father inRorrr.sndy. ./"YUEfeN Eleanor growing, outrageous, whooperceived no a.tnd words or etftrflitjn,mixed with tears, couid wean the Kidgs love fromhis new mhirefs, fbe began to uie more rou^hrceafures, threateni-ng to deflroY-her, thinkingthereby to terrify and affright her from his arms*but to preTent violence, appointed a guard towait on her at home and abroad: and to removeher further from the queen's fight: that her en*vyand continual clamours, if poffible mlghteeafe;he caafed a (lately palace, called the delightfullior-erof Woodftock* in Oxfordihire, to be buiitwith great coft: vith all the cunning-turnings(imaginable, far exceeding thededalionLabyrinth,which he appointed for her country retirement,when Ihe pleafed to take the air. The (latelyjbower had m.iny entries and paffages underground, into which light came thro’ narrowilo e crevices, (haded with bufhes net perceivedi to thofe that wulked above, rifing with doors inIlhdls far diftant, toefcape fromdanger, uponanytimely notice tho* the palace (L* uld be fu ;denlybtTicgcd and furrounded and witliin this (latelyfcower we: e -.titneate maz<is and winding throughJbng entries, rooms and galleries, ftrongly iecar-I with 150 door ; lo that to find the w.: in-the rem -te apartments, the (krtml artilt had: . lilxer clew o thread without the guidancewhich, it was impoifible to be dbne Abouti Bower were curious gardens, fountain , andt'il lerneis, and all manner of delights for p e«-t fituation and recreation, to furnith v oct as>ther earthl'- paradife for fo air a creature toabit; md thither the King often reforted tohis beloved Rohunond.This enraged th* queen more and more, there*(re (he con.ultedher Ions how to be revenged;length it was agreed on, that prince Richard. *|-.( 20 }fhould go over and join with the French to raife■war againft bis father ia Normandy, which thenbelonged to the crown of England, and thatwould draw the king hither to aid his fubjefo,fo leaving his fair mitrefs behind, the q\>eenwould have an opportunity to plot againtt herlife. Nor was Prince Richard flow in this, butmade a fierce war, beat the king's lieutenant, andtook many tovfrns, which news coming to theKing’s ear, roofed him as a lion from his denyand filled him with princely refojutions and re¬venge ’tis true, indeed, thefe different paflionsof revenge and love, long ftraggled in bis breaft;but love at laid gave place unto his honour, andhe therefore refolvedto pafs the fea with a welldifeiphued army.CHAP. V.irtm tb.' King took leave of Rofamond to pafs theSea and left her to the care of ber unde.ry-HIS refohtion of the King foon came to tht|ears of RofamencL which (he re<- ears of Rofamond, which (he received witjan iaexpreffible griet. The King, however, firn#unto his refolvef, being juft ready to depart foalNormandy, went to take leave of fair Rofaraondwand to aflare her of his love and kmdnefs; whejbis Majefty came in, ht found her in a fwoorj'aad when ftweame a little to herfelf, faintly fatf«h, deareft prince. How cruel is unkind fortudunto lovers, that wetsuftfo foon part; my prjfacing foul forbodes never to meet a^ain in.world; was jt for this that I gave up my t'1a (r-1 <-. 1 . t* rs . .* . “•ail, ana ule iis tfair nofamond to court °^'ro™a*„d?eb“:dw“ sS”hU dSaf’Mn d'" 0b'y• 'v‘,k'h""id^^-'h°a~:,r fhe ^k' f. ’hichu^”S fennce which feting impolMiiSaraaftasa^-wSSSSi^|3S€Ss£25ss.r.EEssa.sf™^was -La5rdai^sS :Z-^‘.<» rkder h“’ta!toeasand W « 2e “Sr?^1'fcraS ^ he*«‘W ^ dotted aWa/h.r tr^M, welcome .0 me, my3H2?kSS!»■ 3s=Fsa£SIi=“„£SL.r^f--have long fmce made your King a caPtlve-‘^Ltr^XeSfemona youH^ESfSa•JSSSrSasprotnifod protection. ... ._uThis difcourfe haher that^ ,*r ,,/forther Mm-he t-ook his leave wkh her f\Ul,.*!. )verfe to it, what her father befor? had faid to herru ring hex mindrd now the king having vifited her feveraltimefl. began to be-impatieot to Oi rtelay : andtherefore cominf; one evening to fee he; , for hegeneratl vifited her in the evening for the grea||r privacy^ he importuned her veiy much jjpyield to his embraces and protefted his woundscould not be cured without enjoymentRofiimond Teemed extremely difordered atwhat the king faid, and was going to kneel down,but the king would not frff r her but took herup again and laid, kneel not my deareft Rofa-mond ; It is 1 ihould l{neel; to thee l only aik—Here Rofamond interrupting him, faid a(k formy life, great Sir, and vou fnaH hrve it; or anything th t is in my power to give; but afic notfor mv honour, not to give up: my virgin jewel;for that is fo precious and Valuable, I can neverpan with-it, but to a. hufband. My outwardfornr is but the calket only ; ‘tis virtue is thejewel ; and,when that is gone, what worth is inthe other: Not a poor peafant would efteem that;much lefs is it a prefent for is King. "Nor wouldyour Majefty regard me afterwards bat asllrumpet- She that has loft fcev honour, is but afaded iiowe*-, how gay i'oeverdhe appeared be¬fore; and like a clouded diamond of no value.’ Tis virtue only is the precious jewel that over-fhincs with aa unclouded Inftre—Andthen knecl-ingnclo-wn, laid, Let me beg of you, Sir, tb atko.more-lor that which I ca% never grant but’ toa hufb^nd# : n ,rrh.f,I\irg. was greatly farprized to hear Fuchworls ffOfrt RoCwnond; of whomKe thought hefliouU have made an eafy conqreft^ ^ s »much in love with her good parts and virtue, ashe was withher beauty. And^vmgtakenh^leave of Rofamond, away he goe^W^g® t^icfs, and told her what repulfes hehad met witha•from Rofamond, indead of that eBJoyment he^«fefPSSi„»»H advife ma to purfue, m ordar to gam her’ “SIv6" yoor Majefty, the way that Ievoa d have you »ke U thia, that joa 0,oMcome tat, my chamber'ojrrowo^taMeStm t h-got my WyWamond to bedTad whereas I he with her every night I wdlto bed to her m my l«a , . -nfo^ellfore the morning hght your majtfty wiUnext night . Ki to ^UtheaThe next evernng the^ng camR Qieaccording to his time; and prelentiy21 )gin innocence to your will and pleafure! O ! ialoZh1*? Ef8 lfl‘ Generil trufty and valiant e-S : ^fC°Urge y°Ur rebe;s» but y°a nmft beleparated from your faithfal Rofanond.‘g ?ir Thom^ her uncle,i»ahli,herr W°rthy knigh»1 commit this ineft-t perfure \° y0Ur fole C8re and conduft,thL " \. r°nd; f trcafure far more valuablenan.a kingdom ; take to you a ftrong gaurd foryour dejence and becaraful, I charge yS as y™tender your I,fe .hat none be penSit.ed ..feei till my return. And you. may expeft fairWamond, I ihali write to'you often, ?ndr“quire your anfwers. Alas, faid flie, this part*wgisworfe than death, and I’m fare thePfoul»nd body cannot part with fo much pain, as Imv l/ftf Wlthi fl°m y°U* Fain woulci 1 fp*^XlftfuWCI’ b,at Cannot» ^ere are fo manydeaths m that hard word. Go, r.y.l fir, that {®ay know my grief for grief’s but guefs'd,^h, Rofamtfnd re-pi ed the Kmg, methmks there are fuch mourn-ul founds m parting, that I could hang for everarfT’ and look away ray life upon thinew t r^V»f?rt°go’ ^ “nfthaften. And®r * T’ fa'd Rofamond ajan, if daath be far,,3 therftage to which I am now going,rora whence I never fhall return. And in tearsi>arted from each other.Vow/tir Rtfamond •wet poifoned by QueenS Eleanor, wbii, the King , at FrvZe'pHE King being gone out of theland, away fte1 ports to Woodftock, with fome of her truf.ty friends, who arrived at the Bower, effayed toenter, which ^VM flifly denied by Sir Thomas,her unde, on which a fierce combat enfued, andhis guard being'killed by the queen's party, theyfeized en the dew of thread and prefented it tothe queen, who bv its guidance, was dire&ed byit to thecentre of thelabyrinth, where fhefoundRofamond, fitting as the fun within the littfeworld.it cannot be expreffed the amazement andconfufion fair Rofsmond was in when file beheldthe queen and immediately fell down on herknees, confefs d her fault and implored her par»jdon for a crime fhe was confirained to aft; andat laft file humbly befought her in cotnpaffion o£the. infant chat finiggled in her womb, me mightlive, though in a dungeon, til (he was deliveredBut allin vain, the jealoufy of the enraged queencou!d«pot be appealed, (he gave her the choicieither to drink the cup of poifon (he had prepafied for her, cr die by the fword. Fair Rofamonifinding (he could have no pity, chofe the poifoiand drank it up which foon put an end to helife; whom the queen caufed to be buried priuately ■ ith the reft that were (lain, and fo depaffed, rejoicing in the fuccefs of her revenge aher rival, but littleconfidered the mifery it woulpull on her own head.CHAP. vir..Horn ’when the Kin? returned and heard of fairRofamond s death he caufed feveral of theQueen's party to be put to death and her Ma-jejly toM imprifonedfor life,SOON after the untimely death of Fair- Rofa-nond the King returned home viftorioua;but when he neard of the tragical end, his joywas foon turnedinto mourning, and in a kind btdiflra&ion rent his royal robes, often weeping»nd crying out O my Rofamond, my faireltflower! how art thou hlafted by a cruel dfenhand with thee all my joys are faded ; O thyparting tears prefoged that we fhould meet nomore O that I had ft*id touefend thee fromthis ruin, though to the lofs of a country nayto the eclipfing mt- own fame and renown/ *The king haring a little eafed his .r/ef) fum-asoned his judges, and commanded them tomaket drift enquiry after thofe that were concernedn this aftion : and they were fo diligent thereinhat moll of them were apprehended conrifted’md put to the moll cruel torture; who all blam*:d the queen, and fo fmcere was the King's an-jer, that neither tears, nor the intereflfon oflis nobles on her behalf, could appeale his w rath>ut being a foreign princefs, her life was fpared*>ut confined her for life in a ftrift imprdomenttommanding, if the died there, her body fliouMlot be buried, but there moulder to dull; norfould he forgive her at his death, for fhe out-( 1* >lived him, and was fet at liberty after his de-ceafe, by her fon Richard, who fucceeded hisfather.King Henry having wrecked h.s vengeancdon the murderers of his beloved Rofa«iond, cauG^ed her body to be taken out of that obfcure-cavtfin whioh the queen had caufed her to be laid, ancburied her withall t he funeral pomp imaginableat Gad (low near Oxford, and ereaed to her mexaory a ftately tomb, on which was the followin;knfeription,This was the end of fair Rofamond, who, ha.Qie not been led aft ray by King Henry, with thglittering tinfel of royalty, might have made ■wife worthy of the greateft peer m Esglan .