~ •—g-f " . ♦ J:r ii e "-jt,I CHRISTIAN’SI G R E A T I N T E R E S T;BY WAY OF QUESTION AND ANSWER.Bc-hig a fliort fummary of th? Rev. Mr. WilliamGuthrie's Trial of a Saving Intereft in Chrift, andthe Way how tp attain it.Cf i leJLji ih; cLtfi e o’ an Homu ahU and Pietui Lady.) ,2 Cor. xiii 5. Examine yvdrfe 'vei f ’whether ye be. iathj. faith 1 pttoye your o-wn felvtt; not youriivn j elves tb-w that Jefui Chrji ir in y.u.t exceptI - ye be rcprctf.ites.T}Jc Rearer hereof br-infi; »n D'rffrvft, takes this methodto.- a fnpp rt; ie d ir. and if yoirpleafe ti pive 4 .|- I|alfpenny loi l', ii noc re to nr u wucu cahed torEDINBURGH:Pmuedatth: foet.of the Old AUmbly CJpfr. .«#rCHRISTIAN’S GREAT INTEREST.Quest. WJ El AT is the great bufi-W nels a man hath to doin the world ?Answ. To make Cure a faving intereftin ChriR Jefus, and to walk Euitably there¬unto.Q. Have not all the members of thevihble church a faving intereft in ChriR,A. No verily j yea, but a very few ofthem have it.Q. How (hall I kncrw if I have a favingintereft in him ?A. Ordinarily the Lord prepareth hisown way, in the foul, by a work of hu*miliation, and difcovereth a man’s ftn andmifery to him,, and exercifeth him fotherewith, that he longs for the Phyft-cian, Chrift Jefus.How {hall 1 know if I have got a com¬petent difcovery of my fm and mifery ?*..... . .A* A cD'-npeteiat of.it makes a manhike talvatjon to. heart above a ay thing intins, world !t i;iaketh him diiehdm allrelief in him'felf, even.ih his he-l things:1c rnaksth Chrift, who is the Redeemer,very .precious tq the fowl: It makes.a m3nfund '•} aw to fin afterwards, and'-makeshim convent to be fayed upon any terms j. God pleafedi. ' h?;;Q.: What other way may I difeern,ahaving intereft in him ?■A. By the going put of my heart heri- .’/ouHy and affectionately towards him, as$he.is held out in the gofpe], and thrs-iilairfi, or believing.Q. Ho y fil'd! I know if iny heart go-eth oat after him aright, and that myfaith is, true fai'itig,faith ?A. Where the heart, goeth out arightafter him in true hiving faith; the foulpleafeth Chrift alone above all things, andpleafeth him in* a]l his three* offices, torule and infh ucft, as well as to favej andis content to £ leave unto him, fvhaifoaverinconveniences may follow.Q. What other mark of a favingtfreft in.Ghrft can you give to ms hE ■ 5- ]I A'.. lie that. 19 jn C'-rifl fa^vigiy, U al»evv creature., he is gradeufl-y cnangedandj renewed in foine msafure, in the whole!| man, and in all l^is ways, pointing to¬wards all the known commands of God.Q. What if 1 find fan.now and thenprevailing over me ? .A. Although every fin deferveth ever-I lading vengeance, yet if you be afxlidedI for your failings,confefs them with fhameH of face unto God, refolving to drive .a-I gaind them honedly henceforth and flee.•I Uiito Chrid: for pardon, you. flitdl obtaini'- 'mercy, and your intered dands fuee.Q. What iludl the man do who cannotlay claim to Chvid Jeius, nor any of thofe.| yiarks-fpoken o' lA-. Let hhn not take red, until he majeefurc unto himfeif a . ll^diig intered inI C hrid-What way can a man make fure aninterelt in .Child,, who never had p. fav-• ing intered in him hitherto.,A. He mud take his fills to heart, andhis great hazard thereby, and he mudtake to heart God’s offer of pardon andpsace through Qhrid Jefus, and heartily/r & iclofc wtcWGo:Ps offer, by betaking binfelf nnto Chrift, the blelled refuge.What if my fins be fmgularly hainous, and great beyo.ul ordinary?A. Whatsoever thy fins be, if thou wiiclofe with Chrift Jefns, by faith) thou fha,never enter into condemnation.Q. Is faith in TJhi iil only required d 1men rA. Faith is the only condition upor [which God doth offer peace and pardoi.nto men : But be allured, faith, if it Intrue and faving, will.not be alone in th«foul, but,will be attended with true re¬pentance, and a thankful ftudy of con¬formity to God’s image.ff How lhall I be fure that my heartdoth accept of God’s offer, and doth clofewith Chrift Jefus ? ^A. Go, make a covenant exprefsly, andby word fpeak the thing unto God.Q^What’Way ffiall I do that?A. Set apart fome bit of time, and ha¬ving confidered your own loft eftate, andthe relief offered by Chrift Jefus, wwkup your heart to pleafe and clofe with thafoffer, and fay unta G od ex^yrefsly, thatItfo accept of that offer,, and of him to beyour t od in Chrirt; and'do give up yourto him to' be laved in his way, v» uh-jout refervation or exception in any cafe;and chat you henceforth will wait for fal*vation in the way he ha! h appointed.What if I break unto God after¬wards ?| A. You muft refqlve on his ArengtHnot to break, and watch over your owniway, and put your heart in his hand tokeep it: and if you break, you muft con-| fefs it unto God and judge your felf forl it, ard flee to the advocate for pardon,and refolve to do no more fb; and thisi| you muft do as often as you fail.How fhall I come to full affuranCe;i of my imereft in Chrifl,.fo as it may bei above controverfy?| A. Learn to lay your weight upon theI blood of Chrift,.and fludy purity and ho-linefs in all mariner of converfation; andpray for the witnefs of God’s Spirit, toI join with the blood and the water; andand his teflimony added unto thefe, will> eftablifh you in the faith of an inter eft inChrift.>. - ' ** * L ‘ S ] Ir - What the confequsncc cf&l•(vloilng wk!\, C’o.l in GhrlU,by heart acmenrh ?*i. • A. Union and roamr-jnirfn Gosall good here, and Ins blefTh-.l feiJowiliif _ in .heaven for ever afterwards,krjf What if I nil thefe tilingand do noVlay Clian tojte^rt .to put thetI in praetky?: . ^" ' - <A. The Lord eomitl#v/lth his - ang^n in fi mnttgdir-e, to render vengeance tthem \Viio obey not this gofpel; and th; judgment diall be-great c-r than thejudgmeat of Sodom and ■ Gomorrha ; and t• '--imiich t]ie greater that thou hail read thif> ueattfe, for it fhaU be a wituefs agai^ii th j iii that day,! But yet, G iinner! now is the acceptetime, and now is the day of falvationmercy and grace k yet held out to yo:in the publication of this gofpel, fly the:;to tixe Saviour, who will rejoice over yoTwith love. May tire Lord give his bleffrng to this fmall treatife, that it mayI prove fpirit and life to many fouls,FINIS*