if?*?*idiOl>cxIiSrN81<?*XT*)0<r-sV'-N)OiOfoo. y^vOo>ryOOo.'fejooTHE STORY/ ^K-^&OF THELITTLE WHITE MOUSE:OR THEOVERTHROW OF THE TYRANT KING.r*§oooQerGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THBLITTLE WHITE MOUSE.Ancient history furnishes an example of aking and queen so tenderly attached to eachother, that nothing was wanting to maketheir felicity complete. Their wishes and Itheir sentiments corresponded exactly on nl)subjects; they went frequently to hunt, killmg various sorts of game, and the stag often Ibecame the object of their amusement, or thevictim of their exertions; they visited therivers for the diversion of fishing; and, infshort, whatever gratified the one, became asource of real delight to the other. Theirsubjects followed so amiable an example,and thus the happiness of all the nation con-jsisted 214 mutual exertions to make othenhappy.The king of an adjoining state, whosimanners and dispositions were directly con¬trary, conceived a deadly hatred against tinking of the Land of Pleasure; for so tincountry was called, on account of the trailquillity and joy that constantly prevail •<;there. He was a declared enemy to pleasurilii51 f(lie sought liir nothing hut wounds andbruises; his air was stern and forbiding,‘ with a long heard and hollow eyes. He waslean and withered; always dressed in black ;his bristly locks were dirty and uncombed ;there was no way so secure to obtain jii.-favour, but by committing the most atrociousmurders or assassinations: he took uponhimself the office of public executioner, be¬cause he delighted in the pangs of those whosuftered. This kingdom was therefore calledthe Land of Tears.This wicked wretch, unworthy to possess1a throne, raised an immense army, anddetermined with it to spread through theiterritory of this happy neighbour that deso¬lation which was his greatest delight.When all was ready he began his march;but the news of his intention reached the kingbf the Land of Pleasure long before the in¬vading army, who put every thing in thebest possible state of defence, and waited theittack with firmness and resolution. Buthe timid disposition of the queen suggestedi thousand fears: “Sire,” said she, “letis fly; let us take the wealth we possess,md seek that safety in another quarter oxhe world which we cannot now find here.”‘ It is my duty, madam,” said the king,‘ to remain and protect my subjects. I amrletermined, therefore, to share their fate.”Me then assembled his forces, took a tendelleave of the queen, and marched out to meelthe enemy.As soon as he was departed, the queergave way to the excess of her sorrow, amclasping her hands together, 11 Alas !” exclaimed she, “if the king, my husbandshould fall in battle, I shall be left a widowin the power of a cruel monster, and my unborn child will be doomed to slavery.” Thiidea redoubled her affliction. The king wrotto her every day; but one morning, wheishe was watching for the usual messengerwith fear pictured in his countenance, h-dismounted immediately, and entering he:presence, “ Oh! madam,” said he, “all islost; the king is slain, the army defeatedand the ferocious conquerer almost at ouibacks.”The poor queen fell senseless; her attendants carried her to bed, and all her womerstood weeping round; they tore their hailin the bitterness of their affliction, and ncscene in the world could have been moreaffecting. But their sobs and lamentationswere soon drowned by the cries that everywhere spread through the palace of the cruel amanner in which the victorious army wasdesolating the city. The wicked king, ai(he head of his savage troops, was incessantly►■nAlloyed'in exciting them to acts of crueltyR!;aijilidand plunder : and, thus directed, they slew,without discrimination, every person theymet. He entered the palace, and penetratedwithout ceremony into the most retired apart¬ments, where he found the queen overwhelm¬ed with sorrow and despair. He beheld hexdistresses unmoved, and by his ferociousmanner and brutal threats, added terror tothe pangs she felt before. Thus, too muchintimidated to answer a word, this monsterof a king, supposed her silence to proceedfi’om sullenness and ill humour; he seizedher rudely by the hair, which the negligenceof grief had sufiered to fall loosely on hershoulders, and then dragging her from theed on which she lay, he through her acrosshis shouldei's, and carried her away withoutremorse; he then mounted with her on hissteed, and rode off. She besought him, withtears and supplications, to have pity on hersufferings; but he mocked her cries, andsaid to her, “Weep on; your complaintsare a source of pleasure and deversion tome.”He carried her towards his own capital,and, during the time that he was on the road,he took the most dreadful oaths that he wouldhang her as soon as he reached it; but hewas soon informed, on his arrival, that thequeen was pregnant.When the wicked king knew this, a6thought struck him, if she was delivered of adaughter he could marry her to his son, andto ascertain whether it was a daughter thatshe should have, he sent for a fairy who livedon the frontiers of his dominions. Whenshe arrived, he entertained her with muchmore hospitality than he showed to his mostintimate friends, and then led her to a tower,in the highest room of which the poor queenwas confined. Nothing could equal the miseryof the poor queen, and the unpleasantness other appartment. The broken casementsadmitted both the wind and the rain, theHooping was broken in several places, andthe damps that ran down the walls weredangerous, especially to a person of so weakn constitution as the queen ; the bed wascomposed of nothing but an old majtre.ss,worse than is found in the habitations of thepoorest class of people. In this miserablecondition, the queen passed both day andnight, weeping bitterly at the thoughts ofher own situation, and lor the death of the .king her husband.The fairy’s heart was touched with pity atso deplorable a sight;, she embraced the ,,queen, and, at the same time, she whispered ;in her ear the following words: “ Takcourage,'madam, your misfurtiipes will soon ,be at an end; I hope sopp to coqtribnte toyour happiness.” The qriecn was a littk j ■1onsoled by these words, and earnestly en¬treated her to have pity on a poor unhappyn-incess, who had once enjoyed the greatest,avours of’ fortune ; instead of which, sbo'Quid now boast of nothing hut sufferinglie greatest misery.heThey were thus talking together, whenvicked king, growing impatient, “Come,xune,” said he, “let us not have so many!:ompliments; I brought you here to informate whether the queen will have a daughteior son ?” ‘i She is pregnant of a daughter, ’eplied the fairy, “who will he the mostbeautiful and most accomplished princesslhat has ever been seen, and the queen willvish to see her placed in the highest possibleatuation of rank, and honour.’' “ If she istot very beautiful and accomplished,” saidhe king, “ I will hang her mother to a tree,ivith the child at her neck, and nothing shalltrevent it.” Having said this, he left thedace with the fairy, and took no notice ofhe unfortunate queen, who wept bitterly,---hus lamenting her unhappy fate : “ Alas !vhat shall I do? If I have a beautiful littlea-irl, he will give her to his reptile of a son ;md if she is ugly, he will hang ns both.To what an extreinltyam I reduced! Can-jot I conceal it from him somewhere, so Thatijje can never see it ?”The time approached when the little prin-8cess was to come into tiie world, and thedi:tress of the queen augmented daily; t]gaoler who guarded her gave her nothinhut three boiled peas and a small bit of blacbread for her food during the day; by whirlshe was reduced so thin as to become litfelse than skin and bone.One evening while she was employedspinning, (for the wicked king was so avarcions as to make even his prisoners labour fhim) she saw, entering at a small hole,pretty little mouse as white as snow. u Allpretty creature,” exclaimed the queen, ‘£ whdo you come here to seek ? I have but thnpeas to last me all day; begone, if you wi:not to fast.”—The little mouse ran aboilhere and there, and danced and skipped Ida little monkey: the queen was so pleas'with it, that she gave it the only pea tlnjremained fir her supper. ” Here,” said sh“here, poor little thing, eat this: I hagot no mom; but I give it thee willinglyThe instant she had done this, to her gre,surprise there appeared upon the table tvpartridges, cooked most wonderfully welami two pots of preserves. “ Really,” e:claimed she^ “ a good turn is never lostbhe ate a little; but, with fasting so Ionher appetite was almost gone. She thndown some to the mouse, which, haviriIJ0nil)l)led tliem away, began to leap about withmore glee than before.The next morning very early the gaoleibrought the queen three peas, which he hadput as usual in a large dish, to mock hersufferings; the little white mouse came softlyand ate them all three, as well as the bread.When the queen wished to dine, she foundnothing there; at which she was very an grywith the mouse. li What a wicked littlebeast,” cried the queen; <cif it continuesthus, I shall die with hunger.” As she wasgoing to cover the plate which the mouse hadlleft empty, she found it full of all sorts ofI things good for to eat: she was very gladf and ate of them; but while she was eating,a thought came into her head, that in a fewdays the king would perhaps kill her child,nd she quitted the table to weep. “ Ah !”ejaculated the disconsolate queen, C£is thereno way of saving it ?” At the same timethat she pronounced these words she perceivedthe mouse playing with some straws; shetook some of them and began to work, say¬ing, u If I have enough of straw, I willmake a covered basket to put my littledaughter in, and give it out of the windowto the first charitable person who will takeujjcare of it.”She then began to work very diligently;and she never wanted straw, for the mouse10always brought some into the chamber; andas at usual meal-time the queen always gaveit the three peas, she found in exchange anumber of dishes of the most delicate meats.One day the queen was looking out oh thewindow, to see how long she should makethe cord to tie the basket to, when she shouldlet it down, and she perceived an old womanbelow, leaning upon a stick, who spoke toher thus:—“I know your trouble, and ifyou wish it, I will serve you.” ‘‘Alas!my dear friend,” replied the queen, “youwill very much oblige me, if you will comeevery evening to the bottom of the tower, toreceive my child, whom I will let down toyou : you must feed and nurse it, and if everI am rich I will repay you well.” “ I carelor no pecuniary reward,” answered the oldwoman; “ but 1 am very nice in my eating,mid wish for nothing so much as a fat plumpmouse. If you find such a one in your prison,kill it and throw it to me; your infant willbe (he better for it.”When the queen heard this, she began toweep without answering, ami the old woman,after bavin<r waited a little, asked her whyshe cried: ‘‘Because,” replied the queen,“there only comes into my chamber onelittle mouse, so pretty and so engaging, that1 cannot find in my lieartto kill it.” “How!”replied the old woman, with great anger, “do' like a liltle rogue of a mouse, which‘i als and eats everything, better than youiwn child? Very wrell, madam, you are...it much to be pitied; remain in the goodcompany you have chosen; I can have plentyof mice without you; so I care but littleabout it;” and, scolding in this manner, shehobbled away.Although the queen had a good repastbefore her, the mouse played about as usual;she never raised her eyes from the groundwhere she had fixed them, and tears randown her cheeks.On this same night the little princess cameinto the wrorld, and her beauty surpassed allthe queen had ever beheld: instead of cry¬ing at her birth, as other children do, shesmiled on her affectionate parent, and ex¬tended her little hands, as if she had alreadya good understanding. The queen carressedand kissed her fondly, at the same time sor-rowfully reflecting, u Alas ! my dear child,if you fall into the hands of the wickedking, it will cost you your life;” she shutit up in the basket, with a paper attached tothe clothes, on which was writtenO ! you, whose steps the fav’ring pow’rs directTo these lone scenes, your generous aid I claim ;My hapless child, in infant years, protectFrom sorrow’s grasp—and Juliet be her name.And having turned away for a moment, she1-2looked again, and ibund the infant dressedin the finest linens and laces: she then kissedit, and shed a torrent of tears, not knowing-how to part with her treasure.At this moment in came the little mouse,and jumped into the basket. “Ah! littlecreature,” said the queen, “how much it costsme to save your life ! I shall perhaps lose mydear Juliet. Any other than me would havekilled you for the dainty old woman ; but Icould not consent to it.” “ You will not re¬pent it, madam,” replied the mouse; “ I amnot so unworthy of your friendship as yousuppose.” The queen was like one thunder¬struck, when she perceived its little visagechang-e to that of a woman, and the pawsbecome hands and feet. At length the queen,hardly daring to look up, discovered thefigure to be the fairy that had visited her be¬fore, and who had promised to put an end toher misfortunes and sufferings. “ I wishedto try the goodness of your heart,” said thefairy; “ 1 know now that you are virtuousand worthy of my friendship. Fairies likeme, who possess treasures and riches morethan I can relate, do not seek so much forthe luxuries of life as for friendship, and weseldom find it. ” “Is it possible, great fairy,exclaimed the queen, “ that you, who are sopowerful and wealthy, find it such a greattrouble to gain a friend ?” “ Ye^.” repliedj13she, cc because persons seldom love us but forinterest; but when you loved me as a littlemouse, it seemed from a disinterested motive,and I wished to put you to a still greatertrial: I took the figure of an old woman,and it was I who spoke to you at the bottomof the tower; you have always answerd mybest expectation.” At these words she em¬braced the queen, then she kissed the littlevermilion mouth of the infant princess, andsaid, “My pretty little girl, you shall hence-lorth be your mother’s consolation ; you shallbe richer than your father; you shall live anhundred years without illness, wrinkles, orold age.” The enraptured queen returnedthanks, and begged that the fairy would takeJuliet away, and be careful of her, addingat the same time, “ I give her to be yourdaughter.”rl he fairy accepted the offer, and thankedher: she then put the little one into the bas¬ket, which she let down to the bottom of thetower, and having again taken the form ofa mouse, she descended by the cord; butwrhen she got down, she could not find thechild any where, and remounting in a fright,“ All is lost,” cried she to the queen, “ myenemy Cancaline has just carried away theprincess. You must know that she is a cruelfairy, who hates me, and, unhappily, she isolder than I am, and lias more power. Iknow not by what means to get the child outof her wicked hands.”When the queen heard this melancholyaccount, she almost died with grief; shewept bitterly, and beseeched her good friendto save her child, at whatever price it mightbe done.When the gaoler entered the chamber ofthe queen, he perceived that she had beendelivered, and he went and told the king ofit, who came in a great passion to ask for thechild; but she told him that a fairy, whosename she knew not, had entered the prison,md carried it away by force. At this thewicked king stamped and bit his lips, with’‘very expression of the most violent rage.I promised to hang thee,” said he to theunfortunate queen, “and now I will keepmy word. He then dragged her by the hairfrom the place of her confinement toaneigh-'•ouring wood, mounted a high tree, and wasist going to hang her, when the fairy, hav¬ing rendered herself invisible, pushed himrudely down, and four of his teeth were struckluit by the fall. Before lie had time to re¬cover himself, she carried away his intendedi ictim to a secure retreat in her magnificentpalace. She was there treated with evervidtention and kindness, and if it bad notbeen for the thoughts of her little daughter,she had once more been happy; but she w.t•unalde to procure any intelligence of theinfant, though the little white mouse madeevery exertion in her power lor that pur¬pose.At length, by the progress of time, thequeens grief abated, and fifteen years passedaway without any change in her situation.—At this period there was great talk all overthe kingdom, that the son of the wickedmonarch had fallen in love with the keeperi of the poultry, and that the young womanrefused to accept of him for a husband. Thisextraordinary refusal surprised every one;however, the nuptial dresses were prepared,and the marriage ceremony was soon expectedto take place. The little white mouse deter¬mined to see this extraordinary damsel, whohad resolution enough to refuse the son of aIking, and immediately transported herself tothe capital. She entered into the poultry-yard, and found her there, dressed in a coai'sewoollen gown, with her feet bare, and a capof goat’s skin on her head; lying by her sidewere magnificent dresses, embroidered withgold and silver, and ornamented with anumber of precious stones; the turkeys andother fowls that surrounded her trampled onand spoiled them.Thus habited, and thus careless of thesplendour that awaited her, the keeper of thepoultry sat on a large stone in the middleot1Gthe yard, when the king’s son arrived: hewas crooked and humph-backed, and markedwith every kind of deformity. “If you per¬sist in refusing me,” said he, “ I will orderyou to be put to death instantly.” Sheanswered him with disdain, “ I will nevermarry you; you are too ugly and too wick¬ed. I prefer poverty, with my turkeys andpullets, to all the honours you have power tobestow.”The little white mouse observed her withwonder and admiration; for, though in soa humble dress, she appeared to possess anincomparable beauty. As soon therefore asthe prince retired, the fairy assumed thefigure of an old shepherdess. “ Good day,fair damsel,” said she, “the fowls do creditto your care of them.”—The young womanraised her eyes, and looked at her with acountenance full of sweetness : ‘c they wish,”answered she, “to persuade me to quit mypresent employment, for a crown which I donot want, and for a husband whom I shoulddespise; pray, good mother, what is youradvice?” “My child,” returned the fairy,“ a crown is a dazzling object; but you.can-not imagine the care and trouble it is to thosewho wear it.” “ But suppose I do know allthis,” quickly answered the keeper of theking’s poultry, “still I would refuse to ac-> (opt it, though I am without friend or re-17lation, and know not even the name of thosewho gave me birth.” “You have tljeirbeauty and virtue, my child,” returnde thewise and benovelent fairy, “which are worthmore than a thousand kingdoms; tell methen who placed you here, since you are with¬out parents and without friends ?” “A fairy,named Cancaline, is the cause that I havebeen placed here,” replied the young woman:“she beat me till she almost killed me, with¬out the least provocation. Tired of mysufferings, one day I ran away from her,and, not knowing where to go, I stopped torest myself in a wood, where the son of thewicked king came by chance to vvalk: heasked if I would enter his service. I con¬sented, and was placed to take care of hispoultry; where he came constantly to seethem, and always took great notice of them.Alas! he soon conceived a violent love for. me, and has ever since so teased me with ex¬pressions of it, that I have no comfort leftin the world.”This recital made the fairy .suspect sbebad at last met with the princess Juliet, andsbe therefore asked to know her name. “1am called Juliet,” added she, modestly;“ but who gave me that name I never knew.”The doubts of the fairy were thus instantlyremoved; she threw herself on the neck of theprincess, exclaiming, “Juliet, l haveknown18you long; I am delighted to lind you sosensible and so lovely ; but I wish you werebetter dressed; take the clothes that are be¬fore you, and put them on.” The princessobeyed immediately, ani taking from herhead the cap of goat’s skin, her beautifulgolden hair fell in curls upon her shoulders;then, taking some,water from a fountainthat ran through the yard, she washed berhands and face, and discovered a complex innmore bright and transparent than the chois;\>tpearls of India; roses seemed to bloomfresh on her cheeks; coral seemed to form herbeautiful mouth; and her eyes shone like themost brilliant diamonds. When she hadfinished dressing herself, the gracefulness ofher form appeared equal to the beauty of hercountenance, and the fairy gazed on her withwonder and delight.u Pray, who do you suppose yourself tofie now, my dear child?” asked the lairy.u Really,” answered she, u I coidd fancymyself to be the daughter of some greatking.” il Should you be glad of it?” de¬manded the fairy. “ Yes^. certainly, mygood mother,” replied the princess, “for itwould give me the power of assisting manythat are in distress.” “ Be happy then,” ex¬claimed the fairy, “for you are born of royalparents : to-morrow you shall know more.”The fairy returned immediately to herj19palace, where she had left (he queen. u 1bring' you, madam,” cried she, “ the happi¬est tidings. ” “Alas! ” answered the queei i,u what tidings of joy can come to me, whohave lost both my husband and my child ?”“ It is always right to hope,” replied thelittle white mouse, for the fairy had againtaken that figure; “I have seen the prince;-s: your daughter, and she is more beautiful thanthe blushes of the dawning day.” She thenrelated the whole of her discovery, at whichthe queen wept with joy. “ Who wouldhave thought,” said she, “in the days ofmy prosperity, that I should ever bear adaughter to become the keeper of hens andturkeys !” “ It is the cruel Cancaliue,” saidthe lairy, “who, knowing how I love you,has brought this misery on your child, pur-j posely to vex me; but she shall come gjori-| ously out of it, or I will burn my books.”“I am determined,” said the queen, “ thatshe shall not marry the prince; pray goand seek her immediately, and bring her tome.”The son of the wicked king left Juliet ina great rageat*her obstinate refusal, andwent into the gardens of the palace to con¬sider what he should do; here he cried andgroaned so loud, that his father oyerhean!him, and, leaning through the window, in¬quired the cause cf bis distress. “ How can20\ he otherwise than afflicted,” answered he,1 ‘ to he thus set at defiance by a keeper ofpoultry ?” “What, will not she love you?”said the king; “I am determined she shalllove you, or be put to death.” He then call¬ed his guards. “Go,”said he, “and bringher here immediately; I will punish her soseverely, that she shall soon repent of herobstinacy.”They went to the poultry-yard, and foundJuliet there, magnificently dressed, as thefairy left her; they had never seen so lovelya figure, and, taking her for some princess,were afraid to speak to her. She saidto them, in a sweet and condescendingvoice, “ Pray whom do you seek here ?”;“ Madam,” said they, “ we seek an unfor¬tunate creature named Juliet.” “ I am theperson you seek,” replied she; “what doyou want ?” Hearing this, they seized her,and having tied her hands and feet withcords, lest she shoidd escape, they carried ‘her into the presence of the king. “ Well,insolent wretch,” said he, “and so you aredetermined not to love my son ? He is athousand times handsomer than you; lovehim therefore immediately, or I’ll have youflayed alive.” The princess, trembling likean affrighted dove, kneeled before him, andtried to inspire pity in a heart that neverfelt any; but she pleaded in vain, as the21prince insisted upon it, that his father shouldorder her for immediate execution. How¬ever, they determined at last, as a punish¬ment more severe than death, to shut her upfor life in a tower, where she would nevermore see the light of the sun.At this moment the fairy and the goodqueen arrived in a flying chariot, and theaffectionate mother began to weep bitterly,on hearing the sad fate to which her long-lost daughter was just condemned. u Begood comfort,” said the fairy, (( you shall inthe end be made happy, and your enemiesbe amply punished.” The princess was con¬veyed to the tower, and the king retired tobed; the fairy then resumed the form of thelittle white mouse, and got upon his pillow.Whenever he attempted to sleep she bit hisear; at which, being much disturbed, heturned the other side, and she bit at that also,without mercy : he cried out for assistance,and when his attendants came, they foundhis ears bleeding so fast, that they were un¬able to stop his wounds. While they wereseeking about the apartment to find themouse, she was gone into the prince’s roomto inflict the same vengeance upon him ; helikewise called his attendants, and havingshown his wounded ears, made them put aplaster on each. The little white mouse, infbc mean time, returned t6 the kmc, and22she bit his uo.se and gnawed his face inseveral places: he put up his hands to de¬fend his face, and she bit his fingers; hecried out, “Mercy! mercy! I am lost;”and, while his mouth was thus open, thelittle white mouse entered it, and bit a pieceoff his tongue: his attendants came in oncemore; but he was now unable to speak tothem, his tongue was so severely wounded;so he made signs that it was a mouse thathad thus wounded him, and every corner ofthe room was immediately examined to findthe offender, but in vain, she was gone toto pay a visit to the prince, and to treat himmuch worse than she had treated his father.— She ate out one of his eyes, which left himin total darkness; for he was blind of theother before. He leaped out of bed in-:tantly, seized Ins sword, and ran to theapartment of his father, who also had takenhis sword, storming and swearing that hewould kill every one who came in his way tillthe mouse was found.When he saw his son in such a passion,lie scolded him, and the prince, whose earswere burning with pain, not knowing thevoice of his lather, attacked him furiously.The king exceedingly irritated, made av iolent cut at him with his sword, and re¬ceived a severe wound from his sen at thesame moment; so that they both fell to the23ground bleeding profusely. All their sub¬jects, who hated them mortally, and whoonly served and submitted to them throughfear, now dreading them no longer, tiedcords to their feet, and dragged them intothe river, saying they were happy thus toget rid of their tyrants.Thus ended the days of the wicked kingand his son. The good fairy, who had seenall that passed, went immediately to seek the<pieen, and they went together to the blacktower, where the princess Juliet was confinedunder more than forty locks. The fainstruck three times with a little ring on thegreat door, which opened instantly, as didall the rest; they found the poor princessvery thoughtful, and with scarcely spirits tospeak a word. The queen ran to embraceher; u My dear child, I am thy mother,the queen of the Land of Pleasure!” ex¬claimed she, and then gave her an accountof her birth. When Juliet heard these happytidings, she was as near dying with joy asshe had been near dying with grief: shethrew herself at the feet of the queen, em¬braced her knees, and wet her hands withthe tears she shed upon them. She likewisecarressed the good fairy, who had conferredso many obligations on them both. Thefairy said to them, “It is not time now tothink of amusing ourselves; let us go to24the great hall of the castle and haranguethe people.” >She walked first, with a grave and ma-ijestic air, and dressed in splendid rooes;next came the queen in robes suitable to herrank; the princess followed, decorated in asplendid habit, which the fairy had broughther for the occasion; but disting'uished muchmore by her native modesty and the lustre oilher beauty, which had never before beenequalled. They bowed gracefully to everyone they met by the way, whether rich or[K)or, and by this condescension attracted thenotice of every one.When the great hall was full, the goodfairy said to the subjects of the deceasedtyrant, that she would recommend them tochoose for their sovereign the daughter of aneighbouring king, whom she then presentedto them. u Under so amiable a queen,”said she, “you cannot fail to live in a stateof continual happiness and tranquillity.” Atthese (words the people cried out with onevoice, “Yes! yes! we choose her lor ourqueen, and we trust she will make us amendslor the miseries we have so long endured.’As soon as the intelligence was generallyknown, joy spread throughout the city, amievery sort of business was laid aside, to giveplace to feasting and merriment.FINIS.