ITALIAN KEVENGEGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,^^rxJXI>0C500C>"theIRON SHROUD.The castle of the Prince of Tolfi was built on thesummit of the towering and precipitious rock ofScylla, and commanded a magnificent view of Sicilyin all its grandeur. Here during the wars of themiddle ages, when the fertile plains of Italy weredevastated by hostile factions, those prisoners wereconfined, for whose ransom a costly price was de¬manded. Here, too, in a dungeon, excavated deepin the solid rock, the miserable victim was immur¬ed, whom revenge pursued,—the dark, fierce, andunpitying revenge of an Italian heart.Vivenzio—the noble, and the generous, the fear¬less in battle, and the pride of Naples in her sunnyhours of peace—the young, the brave, the proud,Vivenzio fell beneath this subtile and remorselessspirit. He was the prisoner of Tolfi, and helanguished in that rock-encircled dungeon, whichstood alone, and whose portals never opened twiceupon a living captive.It had the resemblance of a vast cage, for theroof, and floor, and sides, were of iron, solidlywrought, and spaciously constructed. High abovethere ran a range of seven grated windows, guard¬ed with massy bars of the same metal, which ad¬mitted light and air. Save these, and the talif(•4folding doors beneath them, which occupied thecentre, no chink, or chasm, projection, broke thesmooth black surface of the walls. An iron bed¬stead, littered with straw, stood in one corner ; andbeside it, a vessel with water, and a coarse dishfilled with coarser food.Even the intrepid soul of Vivenzio shrunk withdismay as he entered this abode, and heard theponderous doors triple-locked by the silent ruffianswho ■ conducted him to it. Their silence seemedprophetic of his fate, of the living grave that hadbeen prepared for him. His menaces and his en¬treaties, his indignant appeals for justice, and hisimpatient questioning of their intentions, were alikevain. They listened, but spoke not. Fit ministersof a crime that should have no tongue!How dismal was the sound of their retiring steps!x\nd, as their faint echoes died along the windingpassages, a fearful presage grew within him, thatnever more the face, or voice, or tread, of man,would greet his senses. He had seen human beingsfor the last time! And he had looked his last uponthe bright sky, and upon the smiling earth andupon a beautiful world he loved and whose minionhe had been! Here he was to end his life—a lifehe had just begun to revel in! And by whatmeans? By secret poison? or by murderousassault? No—Tor then it had been needless tobring him thither. Famine perhaps—a thousanddeaths in one ! It was terrible to think of it—butit was yet more terrible to picture long, long yearsof captivity in a solitude so appalling, a lonelinessso dreary, that thought, for want of fellowship,would lose itself in madness, or stagnate intoidiocy.He could not hope to escape, unless he had the5power, with his bare hands, of rending asunder thosolid iron walls of his prison. He could not hopefor liberty from the relenting mercies of his enemy.His instant death, under any form of refined cruelty,was not the object of Tolfi, for he might have in¬flicted it, and he had not. It was too evident,therefore, he was reserved for some premeditated •scheme of subtile vengeance ; and what vengeancecould transcend in fiendish malice, either the slowdeath of famine, or the still slower one of solitaryincarceration, till the last lingering spark of lifeexpired, or reason fled, and nothing should remainto perish but the brute functions of the body!It was evening when Yivenzio entered his dun¬geon, and the approaching shades of night wrappedit in total darkness, as he paced up and down, re¬volving in his mind these horrible forebodings.No tolling bell from the castle, or from any neigh¬bouring church or convent struck upon his ear totell how the hours passed. Frequently he wouldstop and listen for some sound that might betokenthe vicinity of man ; but the solitude- of the desert,the silence of the tomb, are not so still and deep asthe oppressive desolation by which he was encom¬passed. His heart sunk within him, and he threwhimself dejectedly upon his couch of straw. Heresleep gradually obliterated the consciousness ofmisery, and bland dreams wafted his delightedspirit to scenes which were once glowing realitiesfor him, in whose ravishing illusions he soon lostthe remembrance that he was Tolfi’s prisoner.When he awoke, it was daylight; but how longhe had slept he knew not. It might be early morn¬ing, or it might be sultry noon, for he could measuretime by no other note of its progress than light anddarkness. He had been so happy in his sleep6amid friends that loved him, and sweeter endear¬ments of those who loved him as friends could not,that in the first moments of waking, his startledmind seemed to admit the knowledge of his situa¬tion as if it had burst upon it for the first time, freshin all its appalling horrors. He gazed round withan air of doubt and amazement, and took up a hand¬ful of the straw upon which he lay, as though hewould ask himself what it meant. But memory,too faithful to her office, soon unveiled the melan¬choly past, while reason, shuddering at the task,flashed before his eyes the tremendous future.The contrast overpowered him. He remained forsome time lamenting, like a truth, the bright visionsthat had vanished ; and recoiling from the present,which clung to him as a poisoned garment.When he grew more calm, he surveyed hisgloomy dungeon. Alas! the stronger light of dayonly served to confirm what the gloomy indistinct¬ness of the preceding evening had partially dis¬closed, the utter impossibility of escape. As,however, his eyes wandered round and round, andfrom place to place, he noticed two circumstanceswhich excited his surprise and curiosity. The one,he thought might be fancy ; but the other, waspositive. His pitcher of water, and the dish whichcontained his food, had been removed from his sidewhile he slept, and now stood near the door.Were he even inclined to doubt this, by supposinghe had mistaken the spot where he saw them overnight, he could not, for the pitcher now in hisdungeon was neither of the same form nor colouras the other, while the food was changed for someother of better quality. He had been visitedtherefore during the night. But how had theperson obtained entrance ? Could he have slept so7soundly, that the unlocking and opening of thoseponderous portals were affected without wakinghim ? He would have said this was not possible,but that in doing so, he must admit a greaterdifficulty, on entrance by other means, of which hewas convinced there existed none. It was notintended, then, that he should be left to perishfrom hunger. But the secret and mysterious modeof supplying him with food, seemed to indicate hewas to have no opportunity of communicating witha human being.The other circumstance which had attracted hisnotice, was the disappearance, as he believed, ofone of the seven grated windows that ran along thetop of his prison. He felt confident that he hadobserved and counted them; for he was rathersurprised at their number, and there was somethingpeculiar in their form, as well as in the manner oftheir atrangement, at equal distances It was somuch easier, however, to suppose he was mistaken,than that a portion of the solid iron, which formedthe walls, could have escaped from its position,that he soon dismissed the thought from hismind,Vivenzio partook of the food that was beforehim, without apprehension. It might be poisoned ;but if it. were, he knew he could not escape death,should such be the design of Tolfi; and the quickestdeath would be the speediest release.The day passed wearily and gloomily ; thoughnot without a faint hope that, by keeping watch atnight, he might observe when the person came againto bring him food, which he supposed he would doin the same way as before. The mere thought ofbeing approached by a living creature, and the op¬portunity it might present of learning the doom8prepared, or preparing, for him, imparted somecomfort. Besides, if he came alone, might he notin a furious onset overpower him ? Or he mighthe accessible to pity, or the influence of suchmunificient rewards as he could bestow, if oncemore at liberty and master of himself. Say hewere armed. The worse that could befall, if notbribe, nor prayers, nor force prevaled, was a faith¬ful blow, which though dealt in a damned cause,might work a desired end. There was no chanceso desperate, but it looked lovely in Vivenzio’s eyescompared with the idea of being totally abandoned.The night came, and Vivenzio watched. Morn¬ing came, and Vivenzio was confounded! Hemust have slumbered without knowing it. Sleepmust have stolen over him when exhausted byfatigue, and in the interval of feverish repose, hehad been baffled ; for there stood his replenishedpitcher of water, and there his day’s meal! Norwas this all. Casting his looks towards the win¬dows of his dungeon, he counted but five ! therewas no deception ; and he was now7 convinced therehad been seven the day before. But what did allthis portend ? Into what strange and mysterious denhad he been cast ? He gazed till his eyes ached;he could discover nothing to explain the mystery.That it was so, he knew. Why it was so, he rack¬ed his imagination in vain conjecture. He examin¬ed the doors. A single circumstance convinced himthat they had not been opened.A wisp of straw, which he had carelessly thrownagainst them the preceding day, as he paced toand fro, remained where he had cast it, though itmust have been displaced by the slightest motionof either of the doors. This was evidence thatcould not be disputed ; and it followed there must9be some secret machinery in the walls by which aperson could enter, lie inspected them closely.They appeared to him one solid and compactmass of iron ; or joined, if joined they were, withsuch nice art, that no mark of divison was percep¬tible. Again and again he surveyed them—andthe floor—and the roof—and the range of visionarywindows, and he was now almost tempted to con¬sider them ; he could discover nothing, absolutelynothing, to relieve his doubts or satisfy his curiosity.Sometimes he fancied that altogether the dungeonhad a more contracted appearance—that it lookedsmaller ; but this he ascribed to fancy, and the im¬pression naturally produced upon his mind by theundeniable disappearance of two of the windows.With intense anxiety, Vivenzio looked forwardto the return of night; and as it approached, In-resolved that no treacherous sleep should againbetray him. Instead of seeking his bed of straw,he continued to walk up and down his dungeon tilldaylight, straining his eyes in every directionthrough the darkness, to watch for any appearancethat might explain these mysteries. While thusengaged, and as nearly as he could judge, (by thetime that afterwards elapsed before the morningcame in,) about two o’ clock, there was a slighttremulous motion of the floors. He stooped. Themotion lasted nearly a minute ; but it was so ex¬tremely gentle, that he almost doubted whether itwas real, or only imaginary. He listened. Not asound could be heard. Presently, however, he felta rush of cold air blow upon him ; and dashing to¬wards the quarter whence it seemed to proceed, hestumbled over something which he judged to bethe water ewer. The rush of cold air was nolonger perceptible ; and as Vivenzio stretched out10his hands, lie found himself close to the walls. Heremained motionless for a considerable time ; butnothing occurred during the remainder of the nightto excite his attention, though ho continued to watchwith unabated vigilance.The first approaches of the morning were visiblethrough the grated windows, breaking, with faintdivisions of light, the darkness that still pervadedevery other part, long before Yivenzio was enabledto distinguish any object in his dungeon. Instinc¬tively and fearfully he turned his eyes, hot andinflamed with watching, towards them. Therewere roun ! lie could see only four ; but it mightbe that some intervening object prevented the fifthfrom being perceptible ; and he walked impatientlyto ascertain if it were so. As the light strength¬ened, however, and penetrated every corner of thecell, other objects of amazement struck his sight.On the ground lay the broken fragments of thepitcher he had used the day before, and at a smalldistance from them, nearer the wall, stood the onehe had noticed the first night. It was filled withwater, and beside it was his food. He was nowcertain, that, by some mechanical contrivance, anopening was obtained through the iron wall, andthat through this opening the current of air hadfound entrance. But how noiseless! For had afeather almost waved at the time, he must haveheard it. Again he examined that part of the wall:hut both to sight and touch it appeared one evenand uniform surface, while to repeated and violentblows, there was no reverberating sound indicativeof hollowness.This perplexing mystery had for a time with¬drawn bis thoughts from the windows ; but nowdirecting bis eyes again towards them, he saw that11the fifth had disappeared in the same manner aathe preceding two, without the least distinguish¬able alteration of external appearances. The re¬maining four looked as the seven had originallylooked; that is, occupying, at irregular distances,the top of the wall on that side of the dungeon.The tall folding door, too, still seemed to stand be¬neath in the centre of these four, as it had at firststood in the centre of the seven. But he could nolonger doubt, what, on the preceding day, hefancied might be the effect of visual deception.The dungeon was smaller. The roof had lowered•—and the opposite ends had contracted the inter¬mediate distance by a space equal, he thought, tothat over which three windows had extended. Hewas bewildered in vain imaginations to account forthese things. Some frightful purpose—some devil¬ish torture of mind or body—some unheard-ofdevice for producing exquisite misery, lurked, hewas sure, in what had taken place.Oppressed with this belief, and distracted moreby the dreadful uncertainty of whatever fate im¬pended, than he could be dismayed, he thought, bythe knowledge of the worst, he sat ruminating, hourafter hour, yielding his fears in succession to everyhaggard fancy. At last a horrible suspicion flash¬ed across his mind, and he started up with a franticair. “Yes! ” he exclaimed, looking wildly roundhis dungeon, and shuddering as he spoke—“Yes;it must be so! I see it!—I feel the maddeningtruth like scorching flames upon my brain! Eter¬nal God ?—support me! It must be so!—Yes, yes,that is to be my fate! Yon roof will descend! —these walls will hem me round—and slowly, slowly,crush me in their iron arms! Lord God! lookdown upon me, and in mercy strike me with in-12stant death! Oh fiend, devil—is this yotu* re*venge ?”He dashed himself upon the ground in agony ;—tears burst from him, and the sweat stood inlarge drops upon his face—he sobbed aloud—hetore his hair—he rolled about like one sufferingintolerable anguish of body, and would have bittenthe iron floor beneath him ; he breathed fearfulcurses upon Tolfi, and the next moment passionateprayer’s to heaven for immediate death. Then theviolence of his grief became exhausted, and he laystill, weeping as a child would weep. The twilightof departing day shed its gloom around him ere hearose from that posture of utter and hopelesssorrow. He had taken no food. Not one drop ofwater had cooled the fever of his parched lips.Sleep had not visited his eyes for six and thirtyhours. He was faint with hunger; weary withv,'etching, and with the excess of his emotions.He tasted of his food ; he drank with avidity of thewater ; and reeling like a drunken man to his straw,cast himself upon it to brood again over the appal-ing image that had fastened itself upon his almostfrenzied thoughts.He slept. But his slumbers were not tranquil.He resisted, as long as he could, their approach ;and when, at last, enfeebled nature yielded to theirinfluence, he found no oblivion from his cares.Terrible dreams haunted him—ghastly visionsharrowed up his imagination—he shouted andscreamed, as if he already felt.the dungeon’s pon¬derous roof descending on him—he breathed hattiand thick, as though writhing between its ironwalls. Then would he spring up—stare wildlyabout him—stretch forth his hands to be sure heyet had space enough to live—and, muttering some13incoherent word, sink down again, to pass throughthe same fierce vicissitudes of delirious sleep.The morning of the fourth day dawned uponVivenzio. But it was high noon before his mindshook off its stuper, or lie awoke to a full con¬sciousness of his situation. And what a fixed energyof despair sat upon his pale features, as he cast hiseyes upwards, and gazed upon the three windowsthat now alone remained 1 The three !—therewere no more!—and they seemed to number hisown alloted days. Slowly and calmly he next sur¬veyed the top and sides, and comprehended all themeaning of the diminished height of the former, aswell as of the gradual approximination of the latter.The contracted dimensions of his mysteriousprison were now too gross and palpable to be thejuggle of his imagination. Still lost in wonder atthe means, Vivenzio could put no cheat upon hisreason, as to the end. By what horrible ingenuityit was contrived, that walls, and roof, and windowsshould thus silently and imperceptibly, withoutnoise, and without motion almost, fold, as it were,within each other, he knew not. He only knewthey did so ; and he vainly strove to persuade him¬self it was the intention of the contriver, to rackthe miserable wretch who might be immured there,with anticipation, merely, of a fate, from whichin the very crisis of his agony, he was to be re¬prieved.Gladly would he have clung even to this pos¬sibility, if his heart would have let him ; but hofelt a dreadful assurance of its fallacy. And whatmatchless inhumanity it was to doom the suffererto such lingering torments-—to lead him day byday to so appalling a death, unsupported by theconsolations of religion, unvisited by any human14being, abandoned to himself, deserted of all, anddenied even the sad privilege of knowing that hiscruel destiny would awaken pity! Alone he wasto perish!—alone he was to wait a slow comingtorture, whose most exquisite pangs would beinflicted by that very solitude aqd that tardycoming!“ It is not death I fear, ” lie exclaimec}, “ butthe death I must prepare for! Methinks, too, 1could meet even that—all horrible and revolting asit is—if it might overtake me now. But whereshall I find fortitude to tarry till it come ! Howcan I outlive the three long days and nights I haveto live ? There is no power within me to bid thehideous spectre hence—none to make it familiar tomy thoughts; or myself, patient of its errand.My thoughts, rather will flee from me, and I growmad in looking at it. Oh ! for a deep sleep to fallupon me! that so, in death’s likeness, I might em¬brace death itself, and drink no more of the cupthat is presented to me, than my fainting spirit hasalready tasted! ”In the midst of these lamentations, Viyenzionoticed that his accustomed meal, with the pitcherof water, had been conveyed, as before, into hisdungeon. But this circumstance no longer excitedhis surprise. His mind was overwhelmed withothers of a far greater magnitude. It suggested,however, a feeble hope of deliverance ; and there isno hope so feeble, as not to yield some support toa heart bending under despair. He resolved towatch, during the ensuing night, for the signs hehad before observed ; and should he again feel thegentle, tremulous motion of the floor, or the currentof air, to seize that moment for giving audibje ex¬pression to his misery. Some person must bo near15him, and within reach of his voice, at the instantwhen his food was supplied; some one perhapssusceptible of pity. Or if not, to be told even thathis apprehensions were just, and that his fate wasto be what he foreboded would be preferable to asuspense which hung upon the possibility of hisworst fears being visionary.The night came ; and as the hour approachedwhen Vivenzio imagined he might expect the signs,he stood fixed and silent as a statue. He feared tobreathe, almost, lest he might lose any soundwhich would warn him of their coming. AVhilethus listening, with every faculty of mind and bodystrained to an agony of attention, it occured to himhe should be more sensible of the motion, probably,if he stretched himself along the iron floor, lieaccordingly laid himself softly down, and had notbeen long in that position when—yes—he wascertain of it—the floor moved under him! Hesprang up, and in a voice suffocated nearly withemotion called, aloud. He paused—the motionceased—he felt no stream of air all was hushed—no voice answered to his—he burst into tears ; andas he sunk to the ground, in renewed anguish, ex¬claimed,—“ Oh, my God! my God ! You alonehave power to save me now, or strengthen me forthe trial you permit.”Another morning dawned upon the wretchedcaptive, and the fatal index of his doom met hiseyes. Two windows! and two days, and all wouldbe over! Fresh food and fresh water! The mys¬terious visit had been paid, though he had im¬plored it in vain. But how awfully was his prayeranswered in what he now saw! The roof of thedungeon was within a foot of his head. The twoends were so near, that in six paces he trod the16space between them. Yivenzio shuddered as hegazed, and as his steps traversed the narrowed area.But his feelings no longer vented themselves infrantic wailings. With folded arms, and clenchedteeth, with eyes that were blood-shot from muchwatching, and fixed with a vacant glare upon theground, with a hard quick breathing, and a hurriedwalk, he strode backwards and forwards in silentmusing for several hours. What mind shall con¬ceive, what tongue utter, or what pen describe thedark and terrible character of Ins thoughts ! Likethe fate that moulded them, they had no similitudein the wide range of this world's agony for man.Suddenly he stopped, and his eyes were rivetedupon that part of the wall which was over his bedof straw. Words are inscribed here! A humanlanguage, traced by a human hand! He rushestowards them: but his blood freezes as he reads :“ I, Ludovica Sforza, tempted by the gold ofthe prince of Tolfi, spent three years in contrivingand executing this accursed triumph of my art.When it was completed, the perfidious Tolfi, moredevil than man, who conducted mo hither onomorning, to be witness as he said, of its perfection,doomed me to be the first victim of my own per¬nicious skill; lest as he declared, I should divulgethe secret, or repeat the effort of my ingenuity.May God pardon him, as I hope he will me, thatministered to his unhallowed purpose! Miserablewretch, whoe’er thou art, that readest these lines,fall on thy knees, and invoke as I have done, Hissustaining mercy, who alone can nerve thee to meetthe vengeance of Tolfi, armed with his tremendousengine, which in a few hours must crush you, as itwill the needy wretch that made it.”A deep groan burst from Yivenzio. He stood17like one transfixed, with dilated eyes, expandednostrils, and quivering lips, gazing at this fatalinscription. It was as if a voice from the sepulchrehad sounded in his ears, “Prepare!” Hope for¬sook him. There was his sentence, recorded intiese dismal words. The future stood unveiledbefore him, ghastly and appalling. His brainalready feels the descending horror,—his bonesseemed to crack and crumble in the mighty graspof the iron walls! Unknowing what it is he does,he fumbles in his garment for some weapon of self-destruction. He clenches his throat in his convul¬sive gripe, as though he would strangle himself atonce. He stares upon the walls, and his warringspirit demands, “will they not anticipate theiroffice if I dash my head against them?” Anhysterical laugh chokes him as he exclaims, “whyshould I ? He was but a man who died first intheir fierce embrace ; and I should be less than mannot to do as much ?”The evening sun was descending, and Vivenziobeheld its golden beams streaming through one ofthe windows. What a thrill of joy shot throughhis soul at the sight! It was a precious link, thatunited him, for the moment, with the world beyond.There was ecstacy in the thought. As he gazed,long and earnestly, it seemed as if the windowshad lowered sufficiently for him to reach them.With one bound he was beneath them—with onewild spring he clung to the bars. Whether it wasso contrived, purposely to madden with delight thewretch who looked, he knew not; but at the ex¬tremity of a long vista, cut through the solid rocksthe ocean, the sky, the setting sun, olive groves,shady walks, and in the farthest distance, deliciousglimpses of magnificent Sicily, burst upon his18sight. How exquisite was the cool breeze as itswept across his cheek, loaded with fragrance!He inhaled it as though it were the breath of con¬tinued life. And there was a freshness in thelandscape; and in the rippling of the calm greensea, that fell upon his withering heart like dewupon the parched earth. How he gazed and pant¬ed, and still clung to his hold! sometimes hangingby one hand, sometimes by the other, and thengrasping the bars with both, as loath to quite thesmiling paradise outstretched before him; till ex¬hausted, and his hands swollen and benumbed, hedroped helpless down, and lay stunned for a con¬siderable time by the fall.When he recovered, the glorious vision hadvanished. He was in darkness. He doubtedwhether it was not a dream that had passed beforehis sleeping fancy; but gradually his scatteredthoughts returned, and with them remembrance.Yes ; he had looked once again upon the gorgeoussplendour of nature! Once again his eyes hadtrembled beneath their veiled lids, at the sun’sradiance, and sought repose in the soft verdure ofthe olive tree, or the gentle swell of undulatingwaves. Oh, that he were a mariner, exposed uponthe waves to the worst fury of storm and tempest;or a very wretch, loathsome with disease, plague-stricken, and his body one leprous contagion fromcrown to sole, hunted forth to grasp out theremnant of infectious life beneath those verdanttrees, so he might shun the destiny upon whoseedge he tottered!Vain thoughts like these would steal over hismind from time to time, in spite of himself; butthey scarcely moved it from that stupor into whichit had sunk, and which kept him, during the whole19night, like on who had been drugged with opium.He was equally insensible to the calls of hungerand of thirst, though the third day was now com¬mencing since even a drop of water had passed hislips. He remained on the ground, sometimessitting, sometimes lying; at intervals, sleepingheavily ; and when not sleeping, silently broodingover what was to come, or talking aloud, in dis¬ordered speech, of his wrongs, of his friends, of hishome, and of those he loved, with a confusedmingling of all.In this pitiable condition, the sixth and lastmorning dawned upon Vivenzio, if dawn it mightbe called—the dim obscure light which faintlystruggled through the one solitary window of hisdungeon. He could hardly be said to notice themelancholy token. And yet he did notice it; foras he raised his eyes and saw the portentous sign,there was a slight convulsive distortion of hiscountenance. But what did attract his notice, andat the sight of which his agitation was excessive,was the change his iron bed had undergone. Itwas a bed no longer. It stood before him, thevisible semblance of a funeral couch or bier! Whenhe beheld this, he started from the ground ; and, inraising himself, suddenly struck his head againstthe roof, which was now so low that he could nolonger stand upright. “ God’s will be done!” wasall he said, as he crouched his body, and placed hishand upon the bier; for such it was. The ironbedstead had been so contrived, by the mechanicalart of Ludovico Sforza, that as the advancing wallscame in contact with it, head and feet, a pressurewas produced upon concealed springs, which whenmade to play, set in motion a very simple thoughingeniously contrived machinery, that effected the20transformation. The object was, of course, toheighten, in the closing scene of this horribledrama, all the feelings of despair and anguishwhich the preceding ones had aroused. For thesame reason, the last window was so made as to;admit only a shadowy kind of gloom, rather thanlight, that the wretched captive might be surround¬ed, as it were, with every seeming preparation forapproaching death.Vivenzio seated himself on his bier. Then heknelt and prayed fervently; and sometimes tearswould gush from him. The air seemed thick, andhe breathed with difficulty ; or it might be that he:fancied it was so, from the hot and narrow limitsof Ids dungeon, which were now so diminished thathe could neither stand up nor lie down at Ids fulllength. But his wasted spirits and oppressed mindno longer struggled within him. He was past hope,and fear shook him no more. Happy if thus re¬venge had struck its final blow ; for he would have 1fallen beneath it almost unconscious of a pang.But such a lethargy of the soul, after such anexcitement of its fiercest passions, had entered intothe diabolical calculations of Tolfi ; and the fullartificer of. his designs had imagined a counteract¬ing device.The tolling of an enormous bell struck upon theears of Vivenzio! He started. It beat but once. ;The sound was too close and stunning, it seemedto shatter his very brain, while it echoed throughthe rocky passages like reverberating peals ofthunder. This was followed by a sudden crash ofthe roof and walls, as if they were about to fallupon and close around him at once. Vivenzioscreamed, and instinctively spread forth his arms,as though he had a giant’s strength to hold them21back. They had moved nearer to him, and werenow motionless. Vivenzio looked up, and saw theroof almost touching his head, even as he sat cower¬ing beneath it; and he felt that a further contrac¬tion of but a few inches only must commence thefrightful operation. Roused as he had been, henow gasped for breath. His body shook violently—he was bent nearly double. His hands restedupon either wall, and his feet were drawn underhim to avoid the pressure in front. Thus horemained for more than an hour, when that deafen¬ing bell beat again, and again there came the crashof horrid death. But the concussion was now sogreat that it struck Vivenzio down. As he laygathered up in lessened bulk, the bell beat loud andfrequent—crash succeeded crash—and on, and on,and on came the mysterious engine of death, tillVivenzio’s smothered groans were heard no more !He was horribly crushed by the ponderous roofand collapsing sides—and the flattened bier washis Iron Shroud.NO GRUMBLING.—A TALE.An odd whim once possessed a country ’squire,that he would not hire any servant whatever, untilten pounds should be deposited between the masterand servant; and tho first that grumbled at anything, let it be what it might, was to forfeit themoney. Being in want of a coachman, not oneround the country would venture to go after theplace. Now it happened that one Thomas Winter-bourn, a coachman of London, who had beendischarged from a nobleman’s family, was in thatpart of the country on a visit, and being acquaintedwith the oddity of the ’squire’s whim, resolved toaccept of the place, and, on application, was admit¬ted into the family.Thomas was greatly surprised, after living therefor two months, that nothing was allowed him forbreakfast, dinner, or supper, hut bread and cheeseand small beer. Being heartly tired of this kindof fare, he applied to the cook: ‘ Cookee,’ saysThomas, • is it the standing rule of this family tokeep their servants on nothing hut bread andcheese ?’ ‘ What! ’ says the cook, ‘ do you grumble ?’'No, no, by no means, cbokee,’ replied Thomas,being fearful of forfeiting the money. But recol¬lecting his master’s park was stocked with fine deer,he took a musket and shot a fawn, skinned it, andbrought it to the cook. ‘ Here cookee,’ saidThomas, ‘take and roast this fawn forme imme¬diately ; for i have an acquaintance or two comingdown from London, to pay me a visit.’ The cookseemed to object to it, having some meat to dressdirectly for her master; ‘ What,’ says Thomas,‘ cookee, do you grumble ?’ ‘No,’ replied the cook ;so down to roast went the fawn.The appointed time arrived that the masterordered dinner, and no sign of any coming to histable occasioned him to ring the bell, to know thereason of it; the cook acquainted the ’squire withall Thomas’s proceedings, who in a great hurrybolted down stairs into the kitchen, where he foundThomas very busy in basting the fawn. ‘ Howgot you that fawn?’ says the ’squire. ‘Shot it,’replied Thomas. ‘ Where ?’ says the ’squire. * Inyour park,’ replied Thomas. ‘ By whose orders ?’quoth the ’squire. ‘ Do you grumble ? saysThomas. ‘ No, Thomas,’ says the squire; and23retired to his dining-room, greatly perplexed atThomas’s proceedings.He instantly wrote a letter to a gentleman wholived near six miles from his house, and orderedthat Thomas should carry it immediately. PoorThomas was obliged to comply, though with a sor¬rowful heart to leave the fawn. After his depar¬ture, the ’squire ordered the fawn, when dressed,to be brought to his table, which was done accord¬ingly. On Thomas’s return, he found himselffairly tricked out of the fawn ; and instead of it,to his mortification, bread and cheese, and smallbeer, his old diet; however, Thomas vowed withinhimself to revenge it the first opportunity.A little while after, the ’squire, (who was goingto pay his addresses to a young lady,) gave ordersto Thomas to get the carriage, together with thehorses and harness, well cleaned. Thomas obeyedthe order, and on the road from the stable to the’squire’s house, he met a man with a small sand-cart, drawn by two remarkably fine jack-asses.Thomas insisted upon an exchange, the horses forthe asses, which being obtained, he cut all hismaster’s fine harness to pieces, to fit these Arabianponies, as he styled them. Matters being complet¬ed, he drove up boldly to the ’squire’s, and knockedat the gate ; the porter perceiving the droll figurehis master’s equipage cut, burst out into an im¬moderate fit of laughter! ‘ C’up, c’up,’ saysThomas, ‘what’s the fool laughing at?—Go andacquaint the ’squire his carriage is ready.’Shortly after the ’squire came, and seeing hiscarriage so beautifully adorned with cattle, wasstruck with astonishment. ‘ Why, what the devil,’quoth the ’squire, ‘ have you got harnessed to mycarriage?’ ‘I will tell you,’says Thomas. ‘As24I was driving from your stable to tlie gate, I meta fellow driving a sand-cart, drawn by these twofine Arabian ponies, and knowing you to be fondof good cattle, I gave your horses for these twotine creatures ; they draw well, and are ornamentsto your carriage ; only observe what fine ears theyhave got?’ ‘D—n their ears and ornaments too,’says the squire : ‘ why, the fellow’s mad! ’ ‘ What! ’cries Thomas, ‘do you grumble?’ ‘Grumble,’quoth ‘the ’squire, ‘why, I think it is high time togrumble: the next thing, I suppose, my carriage isto be given away for a sand-cart!’On Thomas procuring the horses again, he paidhim his wages and forfeit-money, being heartilytired with the oddity of his whims, and declaredthat Thomas, the London coachman, was thedrollest dog he ever met with.FXN1S.