Copy of a Letter|BWRITTEN BYDAVID M'ROBERTSTO HISW 1 F E,kv -Two Days before his Executign 3For >er y Publish. dFOR THE Ris-UOQF OF HIS.Widow and Childhen*rAttested byThe REVEREND j D.LARD rC. M‘Lachlan, Printer, Dtlir frieSiI 7 98'{Price One PennyADVERTISEMENT.THAT every Word of the following Lettir. wwritten by David M‘Roberts, (except the Worprinted in Italics) is attested byDumfries, John Doncasti:Nov. y. 1798. Minister, iT'ht day of Execution.Dumfries, November 5. 1798*My dear Wife and Children,THIS is the last Letter th<5t vou willhave from me. And, O my dear, headvised by the last Sentiments of vourdying Husband. Be thankful for Godyigreat mercy, through Jesus Christ, thatI am enabled to write you—that I amnot confined to a sick bed, and that I,by his tender love in his Son, am en¬abled to rejoice in hope of a glorious im-mortality, by his free grace bestowedon me, who am very undelerving of theleast of his mercy. But 1 rejoice inhope, that when my sun goes downhere, that I shall meet the blessedSun of righteousness with healing in hiswings. It is no matter how the lamp of! this .life goes out, if it be lighted again< by the immortal beams of Clirist’s righte-If .ousness.-—It is better that my spirij; becarried from the soalTold oy Angels,I than from a bed of down, to be draggedto where their Worm dieth not, and; the fire is not quenched.( 5 )There is a heaven of bliss to be ob~tained by the free grace of God to allpenitent and humble sinners that will gosto him by Chrift, and put their trust inhis merits. There is no other wayunder heaven whereby we, or any odie sons and daughters of fallen Adamour first representative, can be savedbut by the blood and untainted righceoufnefs of Christ Jesus, who gaw iiio*self up a willing sacrifice on Mount Qalvary, for to save poor sinful mankindand satisfy the Divine Justice of Gohis Father • ’' his merits, by frc%grace, I rejoice.'* * - j %* • ’ • • '^Sv — .My dear, in the first place, considi- ‘ ,-:T i;itkiw .   _ ....( 6 )livhat von arc, and for what it pleased godjto call yon ;nto being. Was it not to glori-,|y him in this world, and enjoy him inthe world to come?—He is the ggd|har you and every one that cometh intohis world, must appear before, soonerr later ; and I must appear beforeliui on Wednesday afternoon! And,1 ( ,>h ! Dear, remember, that you havelot any covenant with death; and itWy be, you may soon follow your bus-\and. You do not know, but the nextSummons death delivers, may be to you.Oh! then, look into your own he'rt,nd see if you be ready for the changeiiat will happen to you sooner or later:ind look to the law of god, and you( 7 ) *'will sec that indignation and anguish,tribulation and wrath, m e revealed fromheaven, against every one that sinneth:and you may see, that the justice ofgod is infinite as well as his holiness; yetit ha* pleased Him to give his only Sonup to die for lost and undone sinnersof mankind.- If you court the lustsof a sinful heart, and yield to the dco¬llision of Satan, and your own corrupt narture—I say, if you do neglect such greatsalvation, you must perish eternally.—rOh! dear, the natural man or womanis read)1 to think they cannot fall in withChrist, without something of their own:It is true, they cannot without divinegrace. Remember the advice of yourf 8 )dying and loving htisbahd. The beduty that ever you did or can do, is biyour duty, and never can make aniencfor your sins ; so, if ever you be savec■ you must depend on the blood anrighteousness of Christ for all. Oh! mdear, fly front any doctrine that woulrecommend you on works to attain sa’nation. Christ is inviting you withoumoney $nd without price* The door cmercy is yet open; hut be assured thathere is no mercy after death for thosthat die unconverted. I have no doubt buSatan, the world, and the treacherouheart, will have many excuses; but g«on iii the free grace of god, throng!j1: Jesus Christ; and O be sincere at the( 9 )throne of grace, and you will obtain it.Let nothing stop your seeking first thekingdom of god, and all .other thingswill be added unto you. Pray earnest,ly to god for a saving interest in thej blood of the new covenant, of whichjChrist is the Mediator.Now, my dear Wife, I have set lifeand death both before you, and if youneglect it, it will be endless,, endless,endless misery!—O then be earnest withgod, whilst you are in the body; andget the children brought up in the fearof god. Do nQt let your eyes pitythem, so as to ivkh-hold cvnrctkn -whenneedful; and pray that god, for Christsake,, may bicss your endeavours, thait may tend to his glory, and your an*their good. O remember time is passimetzvay, and eternity is approaching. One hour spent in conversation wit]god, is better than all the perishin*world. Mind your latter end, and yoiwill reap the benefit of your laboursNever, never, never stop, till you hav>your peace made up with god, and smatch with Christ, and you will find hiyoke is easy, and his burden light.——May the Spirit that raised Jesus Chrisfrom the dead, quicken you and mdear wee (little) boys, and sanctifyou. This is the last' word or writ( II )m your loving husband.—This day *d a while the morrow, and then you? free to marry whom you will; butf -ji! first m?.tch with Christ on his own’ms I can hardly drop writing—mayu be directed bv infinite wisdom, ise sincere prayer of yours while in theidy Do not forget this advice, and? shall, T hope, meet in a better ivotld:nd O be much in prayer, and godill bring you through all ycur distress \est on him and he will sustain you.0 not forget your great salvation, and1 ruined for ever and ever. I bow myaees to god that he may bless it toHe had mistaken the day of the month—see the da te.your soul. Farewel world! Farevwife and children! Farewel vanity, s:and sorrow! Lord Jesus receive i.spirit.My dear wife and Children, I halaboured with my pen for your sahtion. I could die with the pep in rband. But since I can do nothing, mthe Spirit that raised Christ Jesus frothe dead direct your mind. Oh! Peg«dear, do not charge the holy and ji.god foolishly :—lle has said, Leave tfatherless children, and let thy widetrust in me. My dear, be earnestyour crying to god. Put not your trrin an arm of flesh; but. O pray nig( 13 )1 day that god, for Christ’s sake, may•don all your sins, and enable you toch your ; nd my dear wee (little) boys,u will not have me to give them any>re advice; but I trust in the richesgod’s free grace, through Christ, weill meet in our heavenly Father’suse, where there is pleasure for ever-are. O labour in patience and since-;y with god, till you, by a true andrely faith in the blessed Lord, overcomel your enemies. When you are tempted■{ the tempter, the vain yp&rkl, or your,vn lusts, think that god who sees all'lings, sees you. You can never beut of his presence. Remember whatis Son suffered for you. If you callearnestly for help, you will be assistrand with patient continuance in wtdoing; and praying for divine gra«you will obtain it through' the bioand righteousness of Christ Jesus.O dear ! if it please god to spare y«and your children, O take care of theas well as you can ; but do not let theoverrule you. And may the blessinggod assist your weak endeavour—mhis strength be made perfect in yoweakness. My blessing I leave wiyou; and into his hands I commend y<through time and eternity.O rim ember all that I have said; aimay god for Christ’s sake bless it to yc( >5 )Throw not these lines away:—notthat I mean to aggravate your condemna¬tion by them, but to stir you up to yourduty.—May god watch over you andthe children for good, till the day ofChrist’s coming. Amen.—Even so LordJesus come quickly. Farewel.—Adieu,adieu, adieu!DAVID M‘ROBERTS.finis;TO THE READER.Tn AS MUCH as it has been reported that the for*!going printed Letter (a former Impression of whi«lias lately been circulated m Dumfries) was indited tme, and only copied by David M‘Roberts : I judgemy duty to declare—-that be had INDITED, WRI']TEN, and likewise shewn k, to the Reverend DBurnside, previous to my having had the least kno\ledge of its contents.J. D. MinisteN. B. The Witfow returns her sincere thanks to tLadies and Gentlemen of this Town, and its Enviroifor their liberality and kindness to her.Dumfries, nth November, 1798.