THELife and TransactionsOFMrs. JANE SHORE,Concubine to K. EDWARD IV.CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OFHer Parentage, Wit, and Beauty.Her marriage with Mr. Shore. TheKing’s vifits to her, her going toCourt, and leaving her Hufbaad.Her great diBrefs and mifery afterthe King’s death, &c.STIRLING:Printed and Sold by C. Randall,THELife and TransactionsOFMrs. JANE SHORE.MRS. JANE SHORE was daugh- Iter to Mr, Thomas Wainftead Ia citizen of good reputet who livedin Cheaplide, by trade a mercer. Shebeing the only child of her parent?,was brought up with all the care and.tendernels imaginable ; not wantingany education that was proper forher ; and her natural temper, which Iwas very airy, being joined to hereducation, and that degree of pride,which, as it is natural, fbme makeneceffary for the female fex, helpedto let her off to the belt advantage....... Fine feathers always make finebirds, and if the birds are fine with¬out them, doubtlefs they make themdoubly fo.3This lovely woman, was the de¬light of her father, who clothed herrichly, adorning her with jewels;and his trade lying among the coart-ladies, he often carried her with himto fhew her the paftimes which weremade frequently there, to divert thequeen, which gave her an earlylonging after a greater gentility than{he had ever yet attained to, or hercity breeding was fit to produce.I 1When {he grew to the a-re of fifteenher competent flock of beauty andgood carriage, carded many tofall in love with her, and fomt* greatlords fixed their eyes .upon her, toget her for a inifirefs, which her fa¬ther perceiving, fenr her to ins fifierat.Northampu.n} where fhe remain¬ed about a year, till ne iuppjfed theinquiry after her was over, and thatfile might return wicaout ^ny ha¬zard of neing any further tempted tolewdnefs. Yet he was no foonc-rreturned, than -a plot was laid onenight to have her carried away byXord Haftings, who, after the death•4of King Edward, took her for hisconcubine, as will appear m.the ciofeof this hiftory. But the maid he hadbribed with gold to get her abroad,*repenting of fuch treachery, to hermafter gave timely notice, and loprevented it.Her father perceiving, that, unlefshe took fome fpeedy ccurle, hergreat flock of beauty would be herruin, reiblved to marry her, ;fo thathaving furrendered her Virginity,and being in the arms of a huiband,tkcfe that fought to crop her VirginRofe would not regard her, but giveover their purfuit.And among thofe that courted,and earneftly fought her, in way ofmarriage, w^s one Matthew Shore,a rich goldfmith in Lombard-ftreet,whom her father pitched upon as afit hufband, and acquainted his fairdaughter with his intention to maf-ry her to him. but fhe appeared veryaverfe to it, alledging fometimes dif-proportion of years, he being abovetTnrtjr; at otliei* his beinj dif-figured with t!:e,:ilaiU p )x, aai na\-ny other except ;oas (h? mi is. H »w-ever, her fathsf-s p iliciye f^o^naadsand tb s__r ic .1 p refe ats her ^ajtcf; -m idsher, won herihe yielded tft the antcrv, .^n^foaiar-ried they were in, o;re a-p >.m>'jo*ni-ny of the c^urt, 4% ene.gttf.bet ae 1* 1 y i ted,;>cbtfefriw§ & liny, vyhith.v/as kept vyi^h great feaftia^, imay<iays. ~v-)V7. yayl?. up: 'ub .•■ ■.■The wedding being over, andthe bridegroom having enjoysd hischarming bride, grew Exceedinglyfond of her, even to dotage, whichlickened and pilled her love towardhim, and he perceiving it, drove towind himleif more into her affec¬tions ; and to this end he clothed hervery richly, and adorned her withjewels, denying her nothing idle nie-iired, or that he thought would tendto her fatista&ion or delight.It was not long before Lord Hid¬ings heard the unwelcome tidings,6tliSt hh faired Jane was married ;which, however, did;nog make him^ive over his pnrpdfe crf“'e*J>ying herfair badf 4 fo that oftdri he relortedto fee h<?o itiiasating her at home, andher httfbfcfwi abroad ; often inviiingth«m to oourt. 'and took hisopportlioiri;es -to-ponf ■’otit many, a-m'OKeus difcoxiffe^ endeavouring, byall means, to make her dehie thern&rriage-becb A«nd onVtame intend¬ing to try his utmoA efforts, he threwher on a bed when they were alone ;but ihe pot from hi’h-, .and ran toher^huioand., teiling him plainly howrude Lord haftings Jiad been, whichangering rdiorc he modeltiy rebuk¬ed him, and forba le hi n his nouie,which made him go away in a greatheat, but refbiving to be revenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain toK. Ldward the IV. having frequentlyhis ear; and finding he w as muchinclined to fine women, though hewas married to Lady Elizabeth Grey,took an opportunity to tell him ofJane’s^ beautyg-extolling her , wit^ a-hove her features, which ma?e theKin< hearken, to his tew adve itureand he refo ve i to go to Shore’s ihopin difgmf^ to fee her.Tire King whofe thoughts fKll ranon his intended imdrefs delayed notlong ro p y her a vxfit; and in orderto ir attired himfelf hie a raerchantand withdrew privately from court,being only attended by his page"And coming unto Share’s ihop, thenthe richeft in all Lombard-ftreet, hefound the good man employed in hisbn line fs; and waiting till he was alittle at lejfure, he defined to fee fomeplate, which being ihewn him, heunder a pretence of carrying it be¬yond fea, fooa agree S for a confider-aUle quantity : But yet, no wife ap¬peared, which made him delay thetime with difcourfe, of what was thentranfa&ing in England and placesaoroai; wiieie he faid he had tra-. veiled.This delighted Shore mightily, fpthat he ordered his man to fetch up3a bottle of wine, and they dr^nkmerrily, the good man beginningxvith a health to the King, whichthe King pledged him in. So whendome other healths had palled, theKing a Iked, it there was not a nail-ttefsto fo fair a heufe ? oth^rwife, hecon Id help him to a wile, rich, youngaiid beautiful.Fcr this cxTer. Shore thsnked him,but told him, he was already mar¬ried to fuch a ot\e as he deicribed,whom he loved entirely. This dif-courfe made the King more deiirousto fee her ere i'je departed, and afkedif he could not have a fitht of her.Shore, little thinking what was in¬tended tor his rum, and proud ofhis wife’s beauty, Ton yielded to husrequeft, and ordered her to be calledcipwn, who came attired in a fky-coloured morning gown, floweredwith gold, embroidered with pearlsand fpangJcs, her head attired withcurious lace.- under which her hairflowed wantonly, and her biuihesmade her appear ujll more beautiful.9The King no fooner faw her, buthe flepped forth and fainted her corallips, impreffing on them many bal¬my kifles. Then Ihe, by her huf.band’s deiire, fat down, and the Kingdrank to her, (lie pledged him, andpalfed it to her hulband. Then muchdifeourfe enfned, in which Ihe ap¬peared fo witty, that the Kmg re-lolved to have her at any rate, atidlo prtiented her with fame curiousthings. Me paid for his piate, whichthe good man would have lent ho nebut he refuled it, ordering his p ;geto carry it; and, with many kides,he took leave of the charming fairone for that time.The King had no fooner denarted,but J .uie afleed her hulband, Wkt>[that gentleman was, that had beenlb liberal to her ? he told her, he laidlie was a merchant, but he.knew bunKot. Ah ! laid Ihe, 1 rather take him.tor feme Lord maifguiie j therefore*dear hulbanu, ir lie iiiould come a-gain, ten him that i am lick, or anythix.g you can feign to uii'appoiut iaunIOIV!r. Shore was greatly pleafed ather corduct and more difcourfe hadpafled, but people coming into theihcp about bufinefs,ihe retired.The King foon arrived at court,where he had been mitfcd by his no- {bles, foon changed his apparel, andcame among ft them with a chearlulcountenance, and tho’ others wereignorant, ballings well perceivedwhere he hac-i been and the fatisfac-tion he had received, and no fooncrwere they in private, but the Kingfaid, Well Haltings, thou haft verygood judgerrert in fine women: Xhave fecn Shore’s wife, and fhe ex-ccU the praifes you gave of her; Ilike her well, and mult enjoy her,tut how mull I biing it about? tocourt her in her huffcand’s prefence,as a private peifon, 1 £hall be fervedas you was; and to do it as a King,willl look too. low for me 1 willnot fosce her from his arms, forthat would caufe a murmuring a-niong my fubjedls, who would fearthe like by their wives and daughtersII-but I mufl have her, aad with herown conlent.I ; •Haftings finiling, immediately £udTake no care, for this fhall be eafy' to your iMajefty: There is one Mr?.Blague, your lace woman, has a houfepretty near Shore’s, and is very inti-mare with his wile. This woman isvery fond of money, to fuch a de¬gree, that would make her do anything. Her will I engage to do thismatter, and truft me, (he will bringit to pafs to your fatisfaclion. TheKfiig liked this device, and it was a-greed, that he ihould fee her at thisMrs. Blague’s, and have freedom tocourt her, out lire Ihonld not know,hat he wac, the Ki ig, till he thoughtpaper to have it difcovered.•i-ord Hahings ‘was not idle in pro-motng his matter’s happmefs, but■with gifts and large promiles, fooamade the lace-woman pliable, fo thatmany meetings were made at herhoufe, tie* King coming in difguifeas her liivudj and tiio’ Mrs. BlagueI12often left them alone, and the Kingcourted hler with all his rherorick, yec4he appeared avcrie to his love, andoften blamed him irisrply for per-iuading her to defile her hufbuid’sbee, and then ihe would chide Mrs.Blague for fu lit ring fuch a rude manto come to her hcufe telling her thedthgn he had cn her chaitity ; ihefeemed vejy furprized at it, but en¬treated her to be at eafe, for ihe wouldn^t fuller him to come there againany xnore^This pacified her, but the plot *nsft ill deeper laid for her ruin, and atitihrifimas time, ihe got leave ct Mr;Shore for his wife to accompany herto the court, to fee the bail chert;to vihich he ccnfented with ibrne in-■willingnefs : And icon after flic vasintroouced, a man of veiy ccntlypert, entered with a mafk on ; andJvlfs. Shore heard the ladies whiperThat’s the King, who It okingroundthrough his mailc, fixed his uponher, immediately flepping t<* nei feat*took her cut 10 canoe aong wuh*3him. At this fhe blufhed, but notto be unmannerly fhe complied, andthe ranee being ended, he took: herto a fingie light, and pulling off hismafic to dilute‘ her, fire perceived itwas the fame man whom fhe hadfeen at her own inon, and at Mis.j: • ^ i 7Blague’s houfe, and putting a letter, into in.r hand, he retired. She thencoming to Mrs. Blague, defired to gohome, to this d;e confemed, and thenread the Utter; winch was to tinspur pole :“ My Lovely Jane,“ Your beauty has enthralled myhearr. ’ f'ts a King files, you wdll be1 Lina to him, ami Oy a line, tell himj fo to ins comfoi t ”Yv hen fhe read this, letter, fhe leftMrs. nlague abruptly, j urging fl;chad a hand in the matter.All tit is night rde fair Jane wasrellleU .• Her iiufband teqinred toecauic, but could not learn it. As*14foon as (he got np fhe went to Mrs.Blague, to confult what Ihe muft doin this ftrait, well knowing the king’shumour.Mrs. Blague, feeing her thus pen-five, faid, Gome my dear, you muftnot be coy, nor deny the king’s re-qutft: You will, glitter fo near athrone, and enjoy a gallant bed-fel¬low : 1 find he is r -folved to have youfor a mifhefs, and therefore, it isbefl for you willingly to iubmit tohim.At this difeourfe flic trembled, yetconfidering from t!.'e many attemptsher beauty had can fed, that it wasnot made to be enjoyed by one. ina fatal hour Ihe contented ; and in-Head of writing an . nfwer to theKing’s letter, it was agreed that verynight ihe ihould take hei app~rel, a ridput hetfdf into the hands cf the kingr'I his being conclucied, Mrs. biaguelent the King notice, who lent a cha¬riot for them, and in the meantime,her clothes were conveyed awray toMrs. Blague’s. However, fhe flipp’dwith her hufband, when on a fnddenfomebody came on a feigned errand,and faid. Her mother had taken ill,and deSred to fpeak with her. Hewould have gone with her, but fheput it off; and giving him the ladkifs he ever was to receive from her,fhe left him, and coming where thechariot flood ready, fhe and Mrs.Blague, got into it, and were con¬veyed into the King’s fecret apart¬ment, where they found him in hisclofet. He welcomed them, but itbeing late, Mrs. Blague departed, andthey went to bed.1 * , ' • •Mr. Shore, fitting up late, and hiswife not returning, was very muchtroubled, and went to his mother-in-law’s, but thev had not hen her,nor was her mother ii!; lb that herablence trouHed the whole family.The next day was /pent in feekingfor her amongft her relations andfriends, Hit found her nor. Mrs,Blague proteliedfhe had not feen herand dropped feme diilem&iing tears.fo that her hnfband was almcft dil^.tracled, and at laft, they concludedfile was taken away by lome cour¬tier ; and in three days atrer, a Ladyinformed them tha: die was with theKing. This added more to taeir griefthey knew not wh^t courie to take ;and they kne .v jt they w ent to croistire King, it would be their ruin.They made enquiry indeed, if itwas her voluntary adt, and findingit was and fne. quite unwilling toleave her new lover, they left all hopsof recovering her, fo that Vir, Shotsgrowing melancholy, fold ciF all hehad, and went abroad, but havingfpent his fortune, he recur .ed in apoor cot-anion, heprachied cdppingand fi ing gold coin to maintain him-ieit ; for which he fudered deatlr inthe latter end oi Henry Vi 1 ids reign.Jar e Shore having rendered up herchaftiiy to the King, pleafed v. iiliti e glhteting cd a court, and endear-ta by a n ouaich’s iove, was admiredby the vulgar, towards whoa; Ihe be-17I HaveJ in a mafl courteous manner.R " * ' -,Her power was f > jrreat with theKing, that when h s courtiers duritnot intercede tor the poor and nnfer-ji able that lay under his dilpleafure,ihe, with her wit, would To abate his! anger, that (lae fayed 'the lives of ve¬ry many* both poor and rich. Andthough file could in a manner do aUwith him, y-‘ c it was never known (lievihd her influence to the prejudice ofany. And both in Loudqn, and theprogrefles Idle mdde in the country,fhe would caufe poor people to be1 fought for, and relieve the’.r necefli-ti.es, inducing and periuading others,who expected any good offices fromthe King by her me* s, t# do thefame, never felling her favours; andby her ready '*u, file fo baflled thecourt-!adies who envied her afpiringthat they found tneirdelvcs u tableto repartee. Aid though the King hadanother mitlrels before her, namelyLady Belly, yet he preferred our he¬roine much above her, and would| often merrily lay, I have two miltrel-i8les, of quite diOcrent tempers, onethe moft religious, arid the other themerrieO in England, and indeed ihewas had in rear favour all the reignof the King having crowds of peti¬tioners waiting at her chamber-door,or at the chariot fide ween flie wasto ride abroad, whofe fuits to the |utmoft of htr power (he preferred.As for Mrs Blague, who leall cieferv-ed of her, Ihe procured cf the Kinga fldtely houfe at.d Manor, w ‘rtha Sol a year. Ihe Romdh Pneiismuch fpked her, becaule ihe ihelter-ed many from their rage and fury,alter they had burned John Hufs fora heretic-A.® no worldly pomp nor greatnelsis of lot^g continuance, fo now herglory was ended, and her days of in-exprefiible nnlery began; for the kingdying at Welimmller, in the fortiethyear of his reign, no fooner was heburied in the chapel of his ownfounding, at VVmdlor, but Crook-back’d Richard, his brother, whomuidcr’ci Henry VI. and priiace Hen-r . . .f9ry lus fon afplri i T to tKe throne,tho* E 1 >vard had left t vvo fons behindhim, v z Edward and Richard, andfsverai daughter.', all lawfully be¬gotten with the Queen, he quarrelledwith L&rd Ha ft togs, (who after the; death of the King had taken Jane8hore, for his concubine, as now free)becaufe he would not aflift him. inhii- wicked project, of making awaywith his two nephews, whom he af¬terwards caufed to be murdered inthe Tower, aliedging that the Queenand Shorcfs wife had bewitched him,I fhewing his withered arm, wnich allknew had been i'o from his cradle ;and, that Lord - thinking to cxcufethem, laid ifirhey hare done fb, theyought to be pnuilhed Richard fu-riouily replied, Thou traitor, doltth u ferve me with its ? 1 lay, It isa truth very well known to thee,that they have done fo, and tnat £will make good on thy body : where¬fore I arreit cnee, Lord Haltings, forhigh tfeaion. And loon after, heeaufed his head to be cut off in theTower*20Jane Shcre had no fooner notice ofthe death of Lord HaAings, her para¬mour. but fhe perceived a ftorm wasfalling on her own head, therefore,ihe thought it lucefury to providein time, and (o Ihe carried her jewelsto her old confident Mrs. Blague,entreating her to corceal tdien fromIk i ; but ihe, like a faithleis woman,when Jane came and aflcea for them.,not only denied them, but when inthe pre-teft need, Ihe came to cravealms irom. her Ihe tbruft her out ofdoers, threa’ening to have her whip¬ped for her impudence.Richard, bv means aforefakl, ha¬ving got to ti e crown, and to makehimfelf feem fair by ethers fins, tho’he was a monAer by nature, publiclydeclaring his mother to be a whore,his brother and his children to bebaftards ; cauied his Queen to beptiioned, and wouid have weddedhis niece. He ordered cur Jane Shoreto be apprehended, ilrippeti of all ihehad, and do pennance, by fcveraltimes walking in a white-iheet, and2 Ithen walk hare fooced and bare-heai-ed in her Ihitc before the proceflion,with a crofs and a wax taper in herhand, through Cheapfide, which thedid looking fo lovely in her bluQies,that many pitied her ; he alfo ftrip-ped all her friends and relations ofwhatever they had, pretending theyhad got it all by her means from thecrown in K. Edward’s reign ; whichwith the difgrace their only daughterwas fallen into, cauled her parentsdeath.Richard, ^ot content with this, putcut a levere proclamation to this ef-fedl: That on the pa^a of death, andconfifcation ot goods, no one Ihouldharbour her in their houfes, nor re¬lieve her with food or raiment. Sothat Ihe went wandering up anddown to find her food upon thebufhes. and on the dung hills wherefoiiie friends ihe had raif^d wouldthrow bones with more meat thanordinary, and emits of dale bread inthe places where Ihe gerurally haunt¬ed. And a baker, who had been con-22demned to die for a riot in K’ngEdward’s reign, and faved by feermeans, as he faw her pafs along, ingratitude for her kindnefs, wouldtrundle a penny loaf after her, whichfhe thankfully receiYed, and bleffedhim with tears in her eyes ; but fbmemalicious neighbour informing a-gainfl him, he was taken up andbanged fordifobeying King Richard’sproclamation ; which fo terrified o-thers, that they duril not relieve herwith any thing ; fo that in miierablerags, almolf naked, Ihe went abouta mofl Ihocking fpedtacle, wringingher hands, and bemoaning her un¬happy fate.Thus {he continued till the battleof Bofeworth-field, wiiere Richardwas {lain by Henry Earl of Rich¬mond, who iucceeded him by thename of Henry the \7II. ; in whichreign, fhe hoped for better days;but fortune raifed her another ad-verfary, for, he married Elizabeth,cldeft daughter of Edward the I Viand Jv Edward’s Queen, who mor-tally hated her, then bearing a greatfway, another proclomation was if-fued to the fame effedt; and fo ihewandered up and down, in as poorand miferable a condition as before,till growing old, and utterly friend-lefs Ihe finifhed her life in a ditch,which was from thence called chore’sDitch, adjoining Buhopfgate-ftrret.Thus you may lee the rife and fallof this once ftatoly and then unhap¬py woman, with whoie dying La¬mentation, I fhall conclude.The dying Lamentation ofMRS. JANE SHORE;Good People,nPrsOUGH, by the rigour of the-*• law, you ai£ forbidden to giveme any relief, yet you may pity myunhappy Rate, for the fonpture faithTo the miferable pity fhould befhewaI am not# putting a period to a mi¬ferable life : a life that I have beenlong weary of. Nor would I defireto live in tne fplendour, pomp, and^lory of Rdward’s court. No, I amhappier now omthe dung-hill, thantver i was in his arms ; For oh ! ttwas an adulterous bed indeed. Ohwretch! that King Edward ! thatever I was betrayed by him ! Whatfldcds of furrow have my fins occa-fioned ? Oh ! learn from me, goodpeople, to beware of vain delights :tho’ they promife fain they leave bit¬ter flings behind th mi. Alas! youknow my pumihment is grievous inthis world, and fa it is, for 1 haveendured a thoufand deaths in one;but now, my dying moments arecome, I rejoice, bincere repentancehas lecured my happinefs above.—But O, where repentance is not given,what Teas of torment rack the foul !O happy dunghill, how do I embracethee i From thee hiy pardoned fauilhall Ibar to heaven, tho’ here l leavethis filthy carcafe.O that the name of Shore, may bean antidote to flop the poifonous andloul contagion ot raging lufl for ever.FINIS.X I - f