mmTHECELEBRATED HISTORYOF THE RENOWNEDROBIN HOOD,THE MERRY OUTLAWOF SHERWOOD FOREST.TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE PROFESSOR OF SIGN3-GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE ROOK.Sl.Liccccccac(c(ccc(v((((cca23HISTORY OFROBIN HOOD.■ . <I 'i the time of Richard I. king of England,ie famous Robin Hood was born at a vil-i|ge in Nottinghamshire, and near whichnere many large forests filled with deer,ids father was a ranger of the forest, and:I; had a rich old uncle, Squire Gamewell,'[brother of his mother’s, who lived aboutiventy miles distant. When Robin hadl ached his thirteenth year, it was deter-(i ined that he should pay his uncle a visit1. Christmas; and accordingly, after put-gig on a new suit of clothes, he set off onijiprseback, with his mother behind him.n reaching Gamewell Hall, they metwith a hearty welcome from the Squire, who|id a great company at his house, and the|iy was spent in great merriment. It wasfere that Robin got intimate with Littlelohn, and with great glee, he then got4up and played all the tricks after him, andin a better style. The Squire was so de¬lighted with his nephew, that he promisedto make him his heir, if he would remain atGamewell Hall. Robin consented to stay,provided he got little John to attend him,for a great intimacy had taken place betweenthem.Robin Hood, to a very handsome person,added a courageous and enterprising spirit,and a disposition noble and generous; but j;his uncle’s indulgence obscured his betterqualities. Except an occasional visit to his :parents, Robin lived always at GamewellHall, where he passed his time agreeably jaway in wrestling, quarter-staff, archery,and other athletic diversions, in all of whichhe excelled; and was attended by Little ,John, who was a ready assistant in everymischievous prank.Robin had gone to pay his father a visit,when the Squire being suddenly takea ill,,a messenger was despatched to hasten himihome; but the dangerous state ofliis mother’shealth prevented him from leaving her till ja late hour on the following day. In th€§meantime, the Squire finding himself dying,|sent for a monk in order that he mighlmake his peace with Heaven, and who pre-,vailed on the dying man to sign a deed):conveying all he had to the chinch, as thi jI only means of saving his soul. When. Robin arrived at the Hall, his uncle wasdead, and the monks, who had taken posses¬sion of the house, shut the doors against him,! and would give him nothing, which was; a sad reverse to poor Robin, for he had beenJ brought up as a gentleman without learning' any business, and was unable to gain aI livelihood. On turning from the Hall, heI found Little John waiting for him, and,I determined to unite their fortunes, they re¬solved to go to Sherwood Forest, and supportLI themselves by their bows.I Although the Forest abounded with deer,Robin found that other comforts were neces¬sary, which could not be procured withoutmoney ; and thinking that the monks whohad deprived him of his estate ought to sup-; ply this, he laid every priest under contri-1 bution.The fame of Robin Hood, and the merryi life he led, soon drew a number of young: men to join his band, and increased it toabove one hundred of the bravest fellows intbe kingdom, whom he clothed in green.When the monks, from being so often plun¬dered, came less in the way, Robin’s menwere obliged to extend their depredations toother parts of the country. It was only topriests, and the niggardly rich, that RobinHood was an enemy ; for he held the person6and property of every woman sacred, andalways took the part of the weak and injur¬ed. By the poor people he was adored, forlie generously supplied their wants from hisown private purse.Robin Hood, who loved a good joke as wellas good booty, meeting one day a jolly-look¬ing butcher on horseback, who was going toNottingham fair, with panniers on each side,made a bargain for the mare and panniers,and an exchange of clothes. The butcherhaving put on the fine green uniform, Robindressed and mounted as a butcher, and rodestraight to Nottingham market, where hehired a stall, and began to dispose of hismeat, giving more for one penny than thebutchers could do for five, so that they soldnothing. The butchers supposing him tobe some senseless spendthrift, and that agood bargain might be got oft’ him, askedhim to dine with them. Robin consented,and after dinner insisted on paying the bill;which was no sooner observed by the Sheriff,a cunning old miser, who was master bothof the market and tavern, than he determinedto take advantage of it, and said to him,u Good fellow, hast thou any horned beastto sell?” u Yes, good Master Sheriff,” re¬plied Robin, “if you will please to go andsee them.”The Sheriff immediately ordered out hisH7horse, and putting three hundred pounds ingold into a bag, rode off with Robin on theroad that leads through Sherwood Forest.On entering the Forest the Sheriff exclaim¬ed, “God preserve us from the man calledRobin Hood!” and they had not proceededfar when a number of fat deer were seenskipping about. “ How do you like myhorned beasts, Master Sheriff?” said Robin;“ these are the cattle I told you of.” “Totell you the truth,” replied he, “ I don’tmuch like your company, and wish I weresafely in Nottingham again.” Robin blewthree blasts with his buglehorn, and LittleJohn, with a number of the merry men,immediately appeared. “ Here, comrades,”said he, “ I have brought the Sheriff ofNottingham to dine with you to-day, andT hope he will pay for his dinner.” TheSheriff was forced, much against his inclina¬tion, to go and dine with them. After theentertainment, Robin eased him of the threehundred pounds he had in the bag1 to pay forhis intended purchase, and then placing himon his horse, he led him out of the forest,and desired to be kindly remembered to hiswife.One morning as Robin was strolling inthe Forest, he saw a genteel-looking youngman sitting under a tree, who appeared tobe very melancholy and dejected. He8rtr'Strecl one of his bowmen to bring the youngman to him ; and when he came, Robin in¬quired the cause of his sadness. The youngman taking a ring from his pocket, said,(i I was to have been married yesterday toa young lady whom I have long courted,and I bought this ring for the occasion,but the Bishop of Hereford, her uncle, hasrejected me, and means to give her to an oldwealthy knight.” Robin inquired whetherthe young lady had consented to her uncle’schoice or not, and when and where the cere¬mony was to take place. Alan-a-dale (forthat was the name of the young man) toldhim that the lady was forced to complymuch against her inclinations, and that themarriage was to take place that day in theparish chapel, about five miles from theforest. When Robin heard the Bishop’sname, who was his great enemy, and thetime and place, he told Alan-a-dale to puton a cheerful look, and he would ensure himof getting his mistress. u If you incline tojoin our bowmen,” said Robin, “ bring yourbride to the forest, and let her live with us;but if you do not like our merry life, youare at liberty to carry her wherever youplease. ” Alan-a-dale agreed to join the bow¬men, as with them he felt himself sure of pro¬tection; and then, seeing there was no timeto lose, Robin disguised himself as a harper,9!and ordered twenty-four of his bowmen andAllan-a-dale to follow him ; but proceeded tothe church alone, where he found the Bishopputting1 on his robes, who asked him whathe wanted, Robin told him he was a harper,come to offer his services at the wedding.On the old knight and the bride makingtheir appearance, Robin stept forward andsaid, “ I cannot allow this marriage to goon, for the bride must have her own choice.”—Then pulling out his horn, he gave threeblasts, and the bowmen entered the church.“Young lady,” said Robin, “as you arenow free, see if there is any one here youwould choose for your husband.” She nosooner saw Allan-a-dale, then she sprang tohim, and said “here is my choice.” Robinrequested the Bishop to proceed; but as herefused, he pulled off his robes, and put themon Littlejohn, who took the book, and wentthrough the ceremony very gracefully,Robin giving away the bride. ri he Bishopand the old knight slunk out of the church,and the rest of the party went off to celebratethe wedding at Sherwood Forest.The Bishop of Hereford was so enragedat the trick played him, that he made severalexcursions to Sherwood Forest with a partyof soldiers, on purpose to take Robin prisoner.One day, as Robin was walking alone in theForest, he heard the trampling of horses10behind him, and looking about, saw theBishop with six of his followers in pursuit ofhim. As they were only at a short distancebehind him, Robin had no time to lose, there¬fore he ran forward till he reached the cot¬tage of a poor old woman, into which herushed and begged her to save his life. Sheimmedietely exchanged clothes with him,and as the Bishop came in with his men,Robin passed by them and got clear offWhen he came in sight of his band, one of thebowmen, who observed him coming, cried outi ‘ A witch, a witch!” and was about to let flyan arrow at him, when Robin discoveredhimself. He then told Little John to killa fat deer, as the Bishop of Hereford was todine with them, and taking his bowmenalong with him, went to a particular spot towrait for his guest.When the Bishop entered the cottage, heseized the old woman, who was in Robin’sclothes and said, u I know you are one ofRobin Hood’s gang, therefore take me towhere ho is, and your life shall be saved.”The old woman, who had got her directionsfrom Robin, agreed to take him; and beingsoon mounted, they rode on to an opening inthe Forest, where Robin’s bowmen were alldrawn up, when the Bishop asked, “ who arethese?” “ I think it is Robin Hood, whomyou want, and his merry men,” replied she;11put I cannot be certain, for I am only a poor|rl woman, who changed clothes with him.”■ The Bishop, after bestowing a hearty male-Jaction on the old woman, was turning tos ide off; but Robin brought him down from:is horse, and forced him to go and partake] f their good cheer. After dinner he madeihe Bishop dance a hornpipe, to the no smalliveision of the bowmen; and having easedim of five hundred pounds, as payment ofas reckoning, they led him and his fol-Tjowers to the high road, where the bowmen/i^ave three cheers, and then returned to theibrest.One fine summer day, when the merrylowmen were enjoying their sports, andtying each other’s prowess, Robin, elatedith his own superiority, said, “ My friends,lo you know any man that can match meit wrestling, playing the quarter-staff’, orfiling a deer ?” Will Scarlet, who boreobin a kind of grudge, replied, u I havecard of a friar in Fountain Abbey, whoill draw a bow, wrestle, or handle a quar¬ter-staff with any man alive.” u Say you10,” said Robin, Ci I shall soon have prooiif that; u and taking his bow and quarter-staff with him, went to the neighbourhoodof the Abbey, where he saw a tall brawnyfriar walking by the river side, and in¬stantly knew him to be the man lie wanted12Robin tied his horse to a tree, and comingup to the friar, said, C( Carry me over this;river, thou brawny friar, or I will crack thy]crown.” The friar returned no answer, butimmediately took Robin upon his back, and,carried him to the other side without speak¬ing a single word. Robin leapt off the:friar’s back, and pretended to be going away;but the friar stopped him, saying, u Carry:me back again, thou fine fellow, or it shallbreed thee pain.” Robin took the friar onjhis back; and having carried him across thewater, he then insisted on the monk taking]'him over again, or he would break his bones.,The friar took Robin on his back; but on:coming to the middle of the water, hethrew him in, saying, u Now my fine fellow,,take your choice, whether thou will sink orswim,” Robin, however, got to land as soonas the friar; and challenged him to wrestle,,shoot, and to a bout at quarter-staff; but atnone of these could he beat the friar, nor thefriar him. Robin was so well pleased withthe friar, that he wanted him to join themerry men; but the friar would not consent,and even tried to persuade Robin to turnimonk; so they shook hands, and parted igood friends.One day, as Robin was in search of ad-.ventures near the skirts of the Forest, he!mounted, with a fat buck13Iross his saddle, and disguised in a coun-yman’s frock. Being in want of a horse,resolved to rob the parson, and laying}ld to the briddle, ordered him to dismount;it the priest struck a furious blow at Robinith the hut-end of his whip, which heiceived on his staff, and soonbroughtthe*iest to the ground.\ ’ After robbing the parson of his moneyf md horse, and requesting to be rememberedhis prayers, Robin rode off for for Strat-rd. On the road he fell in with a richountry dealer going to purchase goods atancaster, with whom he soon got acquaintednd they travelled together; but the mer-hant was so close, that Robin, could makeothing of him. On reaching Coventry,,'hcre they dined together, and drank someood wine and ale, Robin told his fellow-raveller, that as the roads they had to travelIvere so dangerous, the safest way was toconceal their money in their boots, and oneeing Robin deposit a bag of gold, themerchant did the same. They again con¬tinued their journey until they came to a partif the road which crossed two ways, whereRobin pulled off the merchant’s boots, inwhich he got three hundred pieces of gold,and rode off’ for Sherwood Forest.At one time when the finances of thenerry men were very low, they resolved to14plunder the rich convent of St. Mary, andto carry off the ima^e of the Holy Virgin,which was of solid sdver. Under the dis-Siise of a poor blind minstrel and his mother,obin Hood and Little John gained admit¬tance to the convent; and, when the nuniand friars had returned to their cells, opened,the gates to their companions. The alarmsoon spread through the convent, and every |one flew to the chapel for protection; but ithe bowmen having already entered the place, Jwere proceeding to spoil it of what was mostvaluable, and to take down the silver image,,when one of the nuns cried out, (i Oh,,mercy will they take away the gift of ourqueen, even while she is within our AvailsOn hearing this, Robin said, u My bravecomrades, desist, and let not disloyalty beranked among our errors; this house and all1Avithin it are rendered sacred by the presenceof Queen Eleanor!” The boAvmen instantly,obeyed their leader, and as they quitted theconvent, Robin told the nuns to bless thequeen for preserving their image, whichothenvise Avould have bought Avino to theSherwood venison.When the queen heard of the behaviour 01Robin Hood, and that his respect for her alonehad saved the convent from being plun¬dered, she Avas so much pleased, that shedetermined to be a friend to him and his men,fSoon after King Richard’s return fromdestine, he proclaimed a grand shootinglitch to take place in the palace grounds, andizes were to be awarded to the best marks-iffin. Queen Eleanor, thinking this apourable opportunity to execute her design;1 favour of Robin Hood, told the king,'it she could bring one hundred men who'iiuld beat the most skilful of his archers,ne king requested her to bring forwardii!r champions, and if they were victorious,v. would not only bestow on them the prizes,i t grant her any boon she asked. The(seen immediately despatched the followingjlssage to Robin Hood : “ Queen Eleanoriseets you well, requesting that you willIce one hundred of your bowmen with you,lid hasten to London; for a great matchif the how is to take place there, and she hasibsen you and your men to be her cham-mns.”On the appointed day, in presence of theole court, the king’’s archers, who wereug’ht to be the best in the kingdom rangedmselves on one side; while the queen’sampions, all clad in green, with Robinlod at their head, took their station on theiner; but the queen was the only personiBre who knew them. After sounding the'jumpets, King Richard announced the prizesiqiich were to be bestowed on the best marks-16men, and the courtiers began to offer bet'of six to one in favour of the king’s menbut no one would bet against them. u Wilno knight venture his money on my side ?said the queen. u Come, Sir Robert Leeyou must try your fortune; ” but the knighbegged to be excused, as there was no chancof success. The queen then asked the Bishoof Hereford, Robin Hood’s old foe; but hswore by his silver mitre that he would ikbet one penny. u If you won’t bet on th >,queen’s side, how much will you venture othe king’s ?” said Robin. u All the goldhave with me, which is five hundred pounds,replied the bishop, and he laid the money othe ground. Robin immediately producea bag of the same value, and threw it dofljupon the green.Before the bowmen beg'an, Queen Eleantcraved this boon from the king—that Ishould not be angry with any of her archerbut that they should be free to stay at conduring the match, and afterwards to haforty days to retire to where they pleas'King Richard agreed to this; and then o|dered the targets to be placed. The kinRarchers lodged about forty arrows in t!*®target; but Robin’s bowmen, to the asishment of all the court, placed all tharrows in the mark.The captain of the king’s archers, chh17j'lged Robin to shoot three arrows with himone hundred pounds; to which Robin’eed, on condition that he would shoot one,he mark he produced. A fresh targetset up, and the captain amidst thundersipplause fixed his three arrows in themark,one of them in the very center of theijet; but Robin, with seeming careless-. s, let fly his first arrow, which split thetre one to shivers, and stuck in its place,oin then caused two willow wands to beIbk in the ground at double distance, ob-slung, that this was the kind of mark he wasliustomed to, and challenged all the king’sifiers to a trial; but as none of them durstfilture after what they had seen, Robin,A the remaining two arrows, clove both17. wands. The king’s bowmen whisperedutach other, that he must be the devil, for’e never was such archery seen before;the Bishop of Hereford said to the king,know now who they are; that is Robinid, and these fellows are his band.” Theg would not have allowed them to depart;as his word had been already given forr security, he made a noble least, be-nived on them the prizes,by with honour.and sent themKing Richard often thought of the won-(rul dexterity shown by Robin Hoodu| his band, and having heard of many of18their generous actions, he regretted that thejwere outlaws, who by plundering those whonlie was bound to protect, were therefore enemies to the state. Sometimes he woisliexclaim, u If I could make these outlawfaithful subjects, what a pride they would bto my court!”One day queen Eleanor entered, and cravetthe boon he had promised to grant if hechampions were victorious, 6£ My dear Richard,” said she, “the boon I ask is the freII;pardon of Robin Hood and his men, whwill, I am certain, prove themselves worth:of your clemency, and be a valuable acquisition to your crown.” “My dear mother,said he, “ I can refuse )^ou nothing; butbefore I grant your request, I must seRobin Hood again, in order to discover whshis sentiments are; for which purposemean to disguise myself immediately, ango to Sherwood Forest.”As the queen approved of this, Richardaccompanied by twelve of his courtiers, adisguised as monks, mounted their horse::and proceeded to the Forest. Robin Hornwho observed them at a distance, thoughtwras a whole monastery of friars, and he ditermined to plunder them. King Rich anwho was taller than the rest, rode foremos jand Robin taking him for the abbot, seiz<his horse by the bridle, saying, “ Abbe:19band, and deliver your money; it was a>bnk that ruined me, and I have sworn tos are none of your fraternity.” u But wegoing on the king’s message,” saidhard. When Robin heard this, he letthe bridle, saying, u God save him! andifound all his enemies !” u Thou art curs-k thyself,” said the king; “for thou artjobber, an outlaw, and a traitor.” Werenot his messenger,” returned Robin, “Iuld say you lied; for I never injured theest and industrious man; 1 protectmen and children and all the poor aroundit is only from the miserly rich, andbse who live upon the labours of others,nt I take any thing; but as you are Kingilchard’s servants, 1 will not deprive you olmingle penny, and also excuse what youeve said.” Robin asked them to partake1 his good cheer before they proceeded onir journey. This being exactly the thingit the king wished for in order to soundobin, he gave a ready consent, and thend, “ was you not afraid singly to attack3flrteen men ?” “ I am not afraid of tenI rteens,” returned Robin; then putting hisirn to his mouth, he blew a shrill blast,tjjd one hundred and fifty of his bowmenf.dantly appeared in view. The king was• 11 charmed with the sight, and the mannerJ which they obeyed their captain, that he'20could not help thinking they were muchbetter trained than his own men.After dinner, the pretended monks againmounted their horses, and were preparing'to take their leave of the bowmen, when theking said to Robin Hood, u Now, my bravefellow, if I were to procure your pardon and1that of your men, would you turn faithfuland useful subjects?” This being the first::wish of Robin’s heart, and for some timenilpast always uppermost in his thoughts, hereplied, u Abbot, I am tired of this kind oflife; and though some may praise our bohadventures and generous actions, yet I nowhate every thing connected with it. WereKing Richard, who is a gallant soldier anda generous prince, to pardon our offences,and take us into favour, he would neverhave reason to repent his clemency, for he j|would find us the most loyal and peaceful ofhis subjects.”u Behold your Icing!” said Richard opening a part of the monk’s cloak, which dis¬covered the star and other insignia. Robim,and his bowmen were instantly on theirknees before him. u Rise up my bravefellows, your leader is now Earl of Hunt- Jingdon, which is his just right, from beingnext heir to the late earl. I restore you!again to society, by freely pardoning all your ^past offences; and I expect from your futurei21  .behaviour, and the services which youable to render me by your skill and'i >very, if you are inclined, never to haveise to repent of my kindness.”Robin Hood, now Earl of Huntingdon,ail his bowmen, immediately swore alle-y nee to the king; and by their good con-.• t afterwards, Richard was induced tori ie them near his own person as a body*ird.THEPROFJSSSOB OF SIGN5on removing toby the Spanishof erudition, but wholING James the Sixthjjjndon, was waited uponibassador, a mana crotchet in his head, that every countrykuld have a professor of signs, to teachi, and the like of him, to understand one)ther. The ambassador was lamentingday, before the king, this great desidera-throughout all Europe, when the king,(o was a queerish sort of a man, says to■in—£< Why, I have a professor of signs1 the northermost college in my dominions,5. at Aberdeen ; but it is a great way off,rhaps 600 miles,”—“Were it 10,000igues off I shall see him,” says the am-22bassador, 11 and am determined to set out illtwo or three days.” The king saw he haolcommitted himself, and writes, or causes t<be written, to the university of Aberdeenstating the case, and desiring the professor;to put him off, or make the best of him thejcould. The ambassador arrives, is receivewith great solemnity; but soon began tenquire which of them had the honour to biprofessor of signs ? and being told that thtprofessor was absent in the Highlands, amwould not return nobody could say whensays the ambassador, u I will wait his returnthough it were twelve months.” Seeing thathis would not do, and that they had to entertain him at a great expence all the while:they contrived a stratagem: There was on: iGeordy, a butcher, blind of an eye, a drollfellow, with much wit and roguery abou Ifhim. He is got, told the story, and instruct: 11ed to be professor of signs; but not to spealon pain of death. Geordy undertakes itfj—The ambassador is now told that the proifessor of signs would be at home next dayat which he rejoiced greatly. Geordy igowned, wigged, and placed in a chair astate, in a room of the college, all the profes;sors and the ambassador being in an adjoin;ing room. The ambassador is now shown in 1to Geordy’s room, and left to converse withas well as he could, the whole of the profes23ting the issue with fear and trembling.3 ambassador holds up one of his fingers to)rdy; Geordy holds up two of his. Thetoassador holds up three; Geordy clinches• lirst and looks stern. The ambassador thenes an orange from his pocket, and holds il• Geordy takes a piece of barley cake fromi pocket, and holds that up. After which,[ ambassador bows to him, and retires tot iother professors, who anxiously enquireddopinion of their brother. “He is a per¬il miracle,” says the ambassador, “ I wouldrgive him for the wealth of the Indies !”—mV ell,” says the professors, “to descend toi|iculars.”—“ Why,” said the ambassador,|| first held up one finger, denoting that■e is one God; he held up two, signi¬ng that there are the Father and bon;Id up three, meaning the Father, Son,Holy Ghost; he clinched his fist tothat these three are one. I then tookan orang’e, signifying the goodness ofwho gives his creatures not only thessaries, but the luxuries of life; uponch the wonderful man presented a piecetread, showing that it was the staff ofand preferable to every luxury.” Theessors were glad that matters had|ied out so well; so having got quit ofambassador, they next got Geordy, tohis version of the signs. “ Well,24 :Geordy, how have you come on, and vvhado you think of yon man ?—“ The rascal!;says Geordy, “ what did he do first thin;ye ? he held up one finger, as much as tsay, you have only one eye ; then I held utwo, meaning that my one eye was perhapas good as both his. Then the fellow hellup three of his fingers, to say there were bu;three eyes between us; and then I was smad at the scoundrel, that I steeked inineive, and was going to come a whack o]the side of his head, and wad ha’e done:too, but for your sakes. Then the rase;did not stop with his provocation here, hrforsooth, takes out an orange, as much as tsay, your poor beggarly cold country canncproduce that! I shewed him a whang of ;bear bannock, meaning that I didna care ifarthing for him, nor his trash neither, ;king’s 1 ha’e this! But by a’ that’s guk(continued Geordy,) I’m angry yet, that'didna thrash the hide o’ the scoundrel!”—fmuch for the signs, or two ways of tellin ia story,FINIS.