Ten FavouriteSONG S.Loch na Gar.On wi’ the Tartan.Oft in the stilly night.Charlie is my darling.The last Uose of summer.Farewell thou fair day.Alice Gray.Oh no ! we never mention her.O, come to me when daylight sets.The King’s Anthem.NEWTON-STE W ART:Printed and sold Wholesale and Returi,By J. M'NAIRN.alhuovB'! noTLQC|| - GALi.•> v Pk; yy §p . 1 j,- tAway ye gay lanclMcapeft, ye trafdens of roses?In you let tlie minio is of luxury rove;itestore me the rock*, wrlieie tlie snow fluke reposes.For still they Jjre sarreil to frieiidship and love.Tct Caledonia! beloved are thy mountejis,Found their ivhife suinitifts tlaiugh elen ents war,Tho’ eataraets fiwun, ’stead of smooth flowing tountaiusI sigh for the Viilley of dark Loeli im tiar.Ah ! there my young footsteps in infanry wander’d,My cep tyas tjie hmihet, niy'cloak was the plaid.On ehieftMins long perishetl my tnemor. pwidei ’d,As- daijy. 1 strode thrp,ugh the pine eoyer'd glade.If sought not my home till the day’s (lying:gloryGave plaee to the rays of the hriglit polar star:•For lancv was < heer’d by traditional story,Disclos'd by the natives of dark Loch na Gar.Shin !es of the dead have I not heard your voicesFise <>i» the night-rolling hreatli of the gale ;Surel\ 'he soul ot the hero rejoicesAnd rides on the w ind o’er his ow n Highland vale.Hound Loch na Gar, w hile the stormy mist gathers.Winter presides in his cold icy car ;Cloud there encircle the forms of my fathers :They dwell in the tempest of dark Loch na Gar.Ill star’d though brave, did no vision foreboding,Tell \ou that fate had forsaken j our cause,Ah ! were J ob destia’d to die at Colloden,Victory crow n’d not your fall w itli applause.Still were you happy in dea'b’s egrly slumber.You rest with your clan in the caves of Braemar,Site pibroch resounds to the piper’s bold number,Your deeds on the echoes ot dark Loch na Gar,.... V. .3Years have r»ll\f on, Lo.-li na Gar. since I left yoo,Years must elapse ere I tr«h<l yon Strain;Nature of verdure arid dow'rs has bf i'eft ydir ;Yet still you are dearer than AHuon’s plairr.I England tliv heauties are tame mid doirieitic;To one who lias roam’d on the mountain afar,Oh ! for the crates that are wild ami majestic,The steep frowhin^gloiies of dark Lodi na Gar..ONW1’ THE TARTAN.A Scotish Song, set to Music by R. A. SmitU\ .f s • "r,; ^Can velo’e, my dear lassie, the hills wild and free,Whare the sang o’ the Shepherd cars a’ ring wi’ gles rOr the steep rocky glen whare the wild falcons hide ?Then on wi’ the tartati an’ fie let uo ride.■>jB ,*ijdTCan ye 1'o’e the knowes, lassie, that ne’er war in riggs?Or the bonnie lown kno'vcsnJiare the sweet Robin btggs?Or the sang o’the Untie, whan wooin’Ins bride?Then on wi’ the taitanau’ fie let us ride.| /■-. U I i«T r. ? 5 <..■ i.lx jI Can ye lo’e the. hum, lassie, that lonps amang linni^?'Or thb'ho'nnie green holms whifre it caniiily ritis,{Mi’ a can’fy hit lldusie sae snug by its s’uhi?Then on wi’ the tartan, an’ fie let us ride.; tusiOFT IN THE SFILLY NIGHT,;d ) OsijifiOFT in the stilly night,Ere slumber’s chain has hound me,Fond metn’ry brings the light.« Of other days around me. Ithi f ' ’‘i»f* smiles, the tears of boyhoods years.The words of love then spoken,The eyes '.hat shone, now dimm’d and gone^The cheerful hearts now broken !Thus, in the stilly niyht,Ere slumher’s chain has bound me*.Sad mem’ry brin"9 the lightOf other days around me.When I remember altThe friends so linked together,I’ve seen around me fall,Like leaves in wintry weather1 feet like one who treads aloneSome banquet-hall deserted,Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead*And all, but he, departed !Thus, &c^CHARLIE IS MY DARLING.Charlie is my darling, my darling* my darllngyO Charlie is my darling, the young Chevalier.*Twas on a Monday morning, right earJy in the year,VCbeu Charlie came to our town, the young ChevalierAs he came marching up the street the pipes played loand clear;And a’ She folk came running out to meet the ChevalUO Charlie is my darling,With Highland bonnets on their heads and claymonbright and clear,tjwy came to fight for Scotland’s rights and the yocChevalier i5They’re left their bonny Highland hu!-, their wives andbaimios dear,T» draw the sword for Scotland's cau;e and tho.yoHa";Chevalier,O Charlie is my darling, &e.S‘1! li.'i-w -J.l» JOB b.cS-jf od‘rt ,0THE LAST ROSE OF SUMMER,Tis the last rose of summer, left hlo»ming alone,All her lovely companions are faded and gone;No flower of her kindred, no rosebud is nigh.To reflect back her blushes or give sigh for sigh.' ',■»'/ ! HjfI’ll not leave thee, thou Tone one, to pine on t i e stem ;Since the lovely are sleeping, go sleep thon with tharua;Thus kindly I’ll scatter thy leaves o’er the bed,Where thy males of the garden lie scentless and dead.So, soon may I follow, when friendships decay,And from love’s shining circle the uems drop away :When true hearts lie wither’d and fond ones are flowit^Oh 1 who would inhabit this bleak woild alone ?FAftEWELL, T’i' U FAIR DAT,Farewell, thou fair day, thou green earth and ye skiesyNow gay with the broad setting sun !Farewell! loves and friendships, ye dear tender ties^Our race of existence is run tThou >»r!i!) kij!" of terror*; t!iou life’s gloomy foe,do I'rig^teu tiie cowanl and slave,.Go teach them to tremble, fell tyrant ! hut know,No terrors hast thou tatlie brave ! .In the held of proud honour, our stvords in ourOur king and our country to save.While victory shines on life's hist ebbing sands,O, who would not die with the brave !j' ho - '] V ;jtALICE GRAY.She’s all iny fancy painted her.She’s lovely, she’s divine;Hut her lieart it is another’s,She never can be mine :Yet| loved, las man nevfcrloved,r A love without decay—Oli! my heart, iiiv heart is breaking.For the love of Alice Gray.Her dark brown hair is Kratde.d o’er,A Brow of s];otle,.-.s white ;And her bright blue eye now langulshe*.Now flashes with delight.Her hair is brairded.not for me,Her eye is turned away—■Oh! mv heart, mv heart is breakingFor the love of Alice Gray."itFve sunk .betrea^h th^suprmers sun.I've trembled in the bho-t;But my pilgrimage is nearly doae.My weary transports past.T3c TiiouT/ a ;:3HW aK ox arctrAnd wlipn tie ofreen sod wraps my grave.May pity iiaply siy— .(tf)lt ! his heart, his heart, was Itrokeo,l or the love of Aliee Gray.• i’-'U * d./'1 rOlll ‘Ml to O’ if.Oil! XO WE NEVER MENTION HER,, .*Joe sd'jrvi'i tt <>; o 'Oh ! no we never mention her,Her name is ne.Yel’.iteart! ;My lips are now forhit).to speak,That once familiar word.From sport to sport they hurry me, o . ’To banish my regret;•And v. iien they win a smile from me,They think that 1 forget.■rt >t,it iuin. v*oJ hfoCilrtThey hid me seek in change of scene,The charms that others see ;Rut were 1 in a foreign land,They’d find no change in me.His true that J behold no more,The valley where we met:I do not see the hawthorn tree,Rut how can I forget.V ■!' ’’.r I 0; ) jfifiilii 'fThey tell me she is Iiappy now,The trayest of the gay ;Tltey hint that she has me forget,Hut, heed not what they say.Like, me perhaps she straggles with,Each feeling of regret;But if she loves as I have lov’d;She never can forget.sOJCOME TO ME WHEN DAYLIGHT SETS.0 rorae to me when daylight sets,Sweet then come to trie,Yt hen smoothly go our gondolets,O come to me when daylight sets. &c.Oh ! then’s the liour for those who lose,Sweet, lihg thee and me,When all’s so calm below, above,In heaven, and o'er the sea.When maidens sing sweet barcaroles,And echo, sings again,So sweet that all with ears, and souls,Should love and listen, then.60 come to me when daylight sets. &c.W hen mirth’s awake and love begins.Beneath that glancing ray,O’er the moonlight sea.With sound of lutes and mandolins,To steal young hearts away.THE KING’S ANTHEM.God save our noble KingWilliam the fourth, we singGod Save the .KingTend him VictoriousHappy and glpriausKong to reign over nsGod Save the king—