FOU RFAVOURITE S0N6S.# t ^ - ■ >WILLIAM AND MARGARET.GO, YARROW FLOWER.ROBIN AND ANNA.COULD A MAN BE SECURE.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BO OK 5. EI.LEKS.HUO11 •' /: ■; t:SONGS.WILLIAM AND MARGARET.’Twas at the silent solemn hour.When night and morning meet.In glided Margaret’s grimly ghost,And stood at William’s feet.Her face was like an April mornClad in a wintry cloud,And clay-cold was her lily handThat held her sable shroud.So shall the fairest face appear,When youth and years are flownSuch is the robe that kings must wear,When death has reft their crown.Her bloom was like the springing flowerThat sips the silver dew ;The rose was budded in her cheek.Just opening to the view.But love had, like the canker-worm,Consum’d her early prime,The rose grew pale, and left her cheek;She died before her time.“ Awake!” she cried, “ thy true love calls.Come from her midnight grave :Now let thy pity hear the maidThy love refus’d to save.This is the dumb and dreary hourWhen injur’d ghosts complain.When yawning graves give up their deadTo haunt the faithless swain.Bethink thee, William! of thy fault,Thy pledge and broken oath ;And give me back my maiden vow,And give me back my troth.Why did you promise love to me,And not that promise keep ?Why did you swear my eyes were bright.Yet leave those eyes to weep ?How could you say my face was fair.And yet that face forsake ?How could you win my virgin heart.Yet leave that heart to break ?Why did you say my lip was sweet,And made the scarlet pale ?And why did I, young witless maid!Believe the flattering tale ?That face, alas! no more is fair,Those lips no longer red!4Dark are my eyes, now clos'd in deatk.And every charm is fled.The hungry worm my sister is,This ■winding-sheet I wear ;And cold and weary lasts our night,Till the last morn appear.But, hark! the cock has warn’d me hence ;A long and late adieu !Come see, false man! how low she liesWho died for love of you.”The lark sung loud, the morning smil'dWith beams of rosy red ;Pale William quak’d in every limb,And, raving, left his bed.lie hied him to the fatal placeWhere Margaret’s body lay,And stretch’d him on the green-grass turfThat wrapt her breathless clay.And thrice ho call’d on Margaret’s name,And thrice he wept full sore ;Then laid his cheek to her cold grave,And word spake never more.GO, YARROW FLOWER,Go, Yarrow flow’r, thou shalt be blestTo lie on beauteous Marv’s breast;Go. Yarrow flow’r so sweetly smelling.Is there on earth so soft a dwelling ?Go, lovely flow’r, thou prettiest flow’rThat ever smil’d in Yarrow bow'i ;Go, daughter of the dewy morning.With Alves’ blush the fields adorning.Go, lovely rose ! what dost thou here.Ling’ring away thy short-liv’d year.Vainly shining, idly blooming,Thy unenjoyed sweets consuming?Vain is thy radiant garlics hue,Xo hand to pull, no eye to view;What are thy charms, no heart desiring?What profits beauty, none admiring.Go, Yarrow flow’r, to Yarrow maid,And, on her panting bosom laid,There, all thy native form confessing ;The charm of beauty is possessing.Come, Yarrow maid, from Yarrow field ;What pleasure can the desert yield ?Come to my breast, O! all excelling.Is there on earth so kind a dwelling ?Come, my dear maid ? thou prettiest maidThat ever smil’d in Yarrow shade :Come, sister of the dewy morning,With Alves’ blush the dance adorning.Come, lovely maid ! love calls thee here ;Linger no more thy fleeting year,Vainly shining, idly blooming,Thy unenjoyed sweets consuming.GVain is tliy radiant garlies hue,No hand to press, no eye to view ;What are thy charms, no heart desiring ;What pro tits beauty, none admiring '<Come, Yarrow maid, with Yarrow rose,Thy maiden graces all disclose ;Come, blest by all, to all a blessing,The charm of beauty is possessing.ROBIN AND ANNA.She listens ;—“ ’Tis the wind,” she cries ;The moon, that rose so full and bright,Is now o’ercast: she looks, she sighs.She fears ’twill be a stormy night.Not long was Anna wed. Her mate,A fisherman, was out at sea;The night is dark, the hour is late,The wind is high—and where is lie i“ Oh! who would love, Oh! who would wedA wandering fisherman, to beA wretched, lonely wife, and dreadEach breath that blows, when lie’s at seaNot long was Anna wed. One pledgeOf tender love her bosom bore ;The storm comes down! the billows rage,Its father is not yet on shore.4‘•Oil! who would think her portion bless’dA wandering seaman’s wife to be.To hug the infant to her breast.Whose father’s on a stormy sea!”The thunder bursts! the lightning falls !The casement rattles with the rain,And, as the gusty tempest bawls,The little cottage quakes again!—She doesn’t speak ; she doesn’t sigh!She gazes on her infant dear—A smile lights up the cherub’s eye.Which dims its mother’s with a tear'“ Oh! who would be a seaman’s wife!Oh! who would bear a seaman’s child ;To tremble for her husband’s life,To weep—because her infant smil’d!”Ne'er hadst thou born a seaman’s boy—Ne’er had thy husband left the shore—Thou ne’er hadst felt the frantic joy.To see—thy Robin at the door!To press his weather-beaten cheek,To kiss it dry and warm again.To weep the joy thou couldst not speak—So pleasure’s in the debt of pain !Thy cheerful fire, thy plain repast,Thy little couch of love I ween.8Were ten times sweeter than the last—And not a cloud that night was seen!A happy pair ; the pains you know.Still hand in hand with pleasure come ;For often does the tempest blow,And Robin still is safe at home.COULD A MAN BE SECURE.Could a man be secure,That his life would endureAs of old for a thousand long years.What arts might he know,What acts might he do,And all without hurry or care,But we that hare hut span-long livesThe thicker must lay on the pleasure,And since time will not stay,We’ll add the night unto the day,And thus we’ll fill the measures.—oioila otll ll A bnj;<’ nil • [i brd te'sSlitaod-TrtlJfiS'w ; Id >s3i<r oTFINIS.oo non) vof_ odf qoow oVb ceil ai t'emafiolq 08[q ydt ,oiil Inlioodo y .ITo! io tlouob ollhl '^rlT