An Excellent Collection ofmgPopular Songs ; .\Xlt,*. * ■1. Nobody coming to marrry me.2. The Days o’ Langsyne.3. The Cobler.4. The Arethusa.5. The Thorn.£ * 6. Gaffer Gray.L 7. The Irish Wedding.Nobody coming to marry m$.Last night the dogs did bark,And i peep'l out to see,hen I saw a lively young spark,iiut he was not looking for me.nft °h(deaL! vvhat wil1 becomeofraerOh dear' what shall I do3'No^0^ coming to marry me,■Nobody coming to woo.My father’s a hedger and ditcher, :My mother does nothing but spimAnd I am a pretty young girl, •-But the money comes slowly in.And it’s, oh dear, &c. *They say I am beauteous and fair • -I hey say I am scornful anct bold:Alas . I must now despair,For ah ! I am grown very old.And it’s, oh dear, &c.And now I must die an old maid,A °r ?,ear •' ,ho'v shockin^ the thought ’And all my beauty must fade,But I’m sure it’s not, my own fault.And it’s, oh dear, &c.T/ie Days o’ Zangsyne.When war had broke in on the peace o’ auld men,brae Chelsea to arms thfey were summon’d a^ain,I wavet'ramsgrovvn gray, wi’their musketssairfil’d,VVuh a s)gh were relating how hard they had toil’d ;he drum it was heating, to fight they incline,But ay -they look’d back on the days ^ janesvae.O Davy, man, weel thou remembers the time.When tvva daft bit callants, and j^ist in our prime .The prince led ns, conquer’d,and show’d us ^he way.And mony hraw cbield we turn’d cauld on that day.Still again I wad venture this auld trunk o’ mine.Con'd our gen’ralsbut lead;or we fight like langsyne.But garrison duty is a’ we can do,Tho’ our arms are worn weak, yet our hearts aic■still true,; •We fear’d neither danger by laud or by sea.But time is turn’d coward, and no you and me'; ‘And tho’ at our fate we may sorely repine,Vouth winna return, nor the days o’ hingsyne.When after our conquest, it joys me to mind.How thy Jean caress’d thee, and my Meg was kind ;They shar’d a’ our dangers, tho’ ever sae tfard.And we car’d na for plunder, when sib our reward ,Even now they’re resolv’d baith their hames to re¬sign.And to share the hard fate they were us’d to lang¬syne.The Coble)'.Last week I took a wife,And when I first did woo her,t vow’d to stick through life.Like cobler’s wax, unto her ;But sooh we went, by some mishap,To loggerheads together,^nd when my wife began to strap,Why, I began to leather.My wife, without her shoes,{s bwiUy three feet seven ;\nd I, to all men’s views,Am full five feet eleven.3o when, to take her down some pegs,I drubb’d her neat and clever,4She made a bolt right through my legs.And ran away for ever.When she was gone, good lackMy hair like hogVnair bristled !I thought she’d ne’er come back,So went to work and whistled ;Then let her go, I've got my stallsWhich may no robber rifle,’Twould break my heart to lose my aWl,To lose my wife’s a trifle.The Arethusa.Come all ye jolly sailors bold,Whose hearts are cast in honour’s mould,While English glory' 1 unfold,Huzza to the Arethusa iShe is a frigate^tight and brave.As ever stemm<d the dashfng wave,Her men are staunchTo their fav’rite launch,And when the foe shall meet our fire.Sooner than strike, well all expireOn board of the Arethusa. '"Twas with the spring fleet she went out, <The English Channel to cruise about.When four French sail^in show so stout.Bore down on the Arethusa.The fam’d Belle Poole straight a-head did lie,.Th,e Arethusa seem’d to fly ;Not a sheet, or a tack,Or a brace did she slack; ^Though the Frenchmen laugh’d and thoughtit stuff;But they knew not the handful of meh, howtough,On board of the Aretho*#.*1 rf:' 4 ’5On deck five hundred men did dance,The stoutest they conld find in France ;We with two hundred did advance,On board of thd Aret.husa.Our captain hail’d the Frenchmen, ho !The Frenchmen they cried out, hallo !Bear down, d’ye see,To our admiral's lee :No, no, says the Frenchmen, that can’t be ;Then I must lug you along with me,Says the saucy Arethusa.The fight was off the Frenchmen’s land;We forc’d them back upon their strand ;For we fought till not a stick would standOf the gallant Arethusa.And now we’ve driven, the foe ashore,Never to fight with Britons more,Let each fill 4 glass r, ;To his favourite lass'; • . ,;A health to our captain and officers true.And all that belong to the jovial crew.On board of the Arethusa.The Thorn.From the wlute-blossom’d sloe my dear CffiloerequestedA sprig her fair breast to ddorn ;No,' by1 hfeavgh’s ! I exclaim’d, may I perish,If ever I plant in that bosom a thorn.When I skew’d her the ruig, and implor’dher to marry, 1 y. t ,iSjhe blush’d, like the dawnihg of morn ^Yes, I’llconsent, she rejdy’d, if you’ll promise,That no jealous rival shall laugh me to scorn.No, by heavens! I exclaim’d, may I perish,If ever I plant in that bosom a thorn.6Gaffer Gray.IIo ! Why dost thou shiver and shake, GafferGray? , ,aAnd why dost Ihy nose look so blue ? .'Tl'is the weather that’s-cold,"Tis I’m grown very old,And my doublet is' not very new ;Ayeil-a-day !Then line thy woih doublet with ale, GafferGray, - -<( nn •And warm thy old heart with a glass;Nay, but credit I’ve none, .And my money’s all g‘6ne.Then say, how may that come to nafcs ?Well-aday !Hie away to the house oh the brow, GafferGray,And knock at the jolly priest’s door.The priest often preachesAgainst worldly riches,But ne’er gives' a mite to the poor;WeU-a-day !The lawyer lives under the hill, Gaffer Gray,Warmly fenc’d both in back and in front.He’ll soon fasten his locks,Aiul will .threaten the stocks.Should he ever more find me in want;Welba-da^!The squire has fart begves, and brown ale,. Gaffer Gray•Aud, the season will welcome you there.liis fat beeves and his beer,And his merry new year.Are all for the flush and the fair •YVell-a-day!il'8 ■«, I confess, Gaffer Gray •W hat then, white irlasts, man>The poor manWhen he hears the poor moan.Of his morsel ^morsel will give •Well-a-day!The Irish IVeelding.Sure, won't you hear what roaring cheerHas spread at Paddy’s wedding, O,And how so gay, they spent the day/rrom the churching to the bedding, O.hirst, book in hand, came Father QiWs 1Wnh the bride’s dada, the bailie, O, 'VV hile all the way to church the pipes : 'btrugk ,up a hit so gai^y, O.Ditiienim hi^&c,Then there was Mat, and sturdy Pat, r ■a . / mtrry Morgan Murphy, Or ,And MurJock Maggs, and Tirlogh SkeggsMgclochhm, and Dick Durfev, O • ’And then the girls dress’d out in whites.Led on by Dad O'Reily, O,A‘J Fgging, as the merry pipesStruck up a lilt so gaily, O.wa« ask’d would his love last ?Av£/(chunce fC,od wid ,aughter, o !To th*1* C^edr ^at' y°U niay sav dat’lo the end of the world and alter OJhen tenderly hei- hand he gripes, iAnd kisses her genteel!v, O,8While all in tune the merry pipesStruck up a lilt so gaily, O. .Now a roaring set at dinner are met,So frolicksome and so frisky, O,Pptatoei galore, a stytS# pr more/ . ;And a flowing mjidf'ir ° :To the-bride’s dear healt^pugd weir- the stfpt% ,That her joy might b<nigl}tly and daily, O,And as thpyguttle^the-i-nefly.pipesStruck up a hit ‘so gaWy; O. . .And then at night. Oh ! what delight,To see them all fontbgiand prancing, O ;An opera or ball, were nothing at all,Compar’d.to thp styla of then dancing, O !And then to see old' Father QlllPeSBeat tioie with his shillelah; O, .While tW fchanter, with his fnej;ry pipes,Struck up a hltistr gaily, O-And now’the knot,# tipsV gre got- They’ll go to sleep Withovlt. t&kihg, O ;So the bride maids fair, now gravely prepare,For throwing of the .stocking, O ; .And round to be d)d not'go thw wipes.At the bride's expense so freely, O,While, to .widh .them good-night, the, meFy.pipesStruck up iai lilt SQ ga)ly> 0-