A NABSTRACTOF THEBLOODY MASSACREI NIRELAND,A&ed at the Instigation of the JESUITS,PRIESTS and FRIARS, who were chiefl Promoters of thefe horrible Murders;prodigious Cruelties, barbarous Villanies,and inhuman Practices, executed by theIrish Papists upon the English Pro*testants, in the year, 1641.And intended to have been a&ed over a-gain, on Sabbath day, 9th Dec, 1688.But, by the wonderful Providence ofi God, was prevented.-Of- smWro ^B U RGLASGOW, ' 7-PRINTED by j‘. and M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1800.P RTHEE F A C ET O T H ER E A D . E R.THERE is no part of the charafter of .Aatichrift more truly, applicable to theChurch of Rome than this, that fhe is drunkwith the blood of the faints; the martyrs cfTefus Chrift, and of all that were flain on rite.earth. In thebook of the Revelation, the great■city where the wotneffes oi Cod are ildvi,fpiritualiy called Sodom and Egypt. Sodomon account of its notorious frltninefs, and]E,g|pt on account of its being a ho u feci bon'1 dage to the people of God, whom they re¬fute to let go, even when the Lord is \Hiringthem with plagues for detaining them; and|to whom thefe characters are juftly .appiica-‘ ble, one may fee almoft with half an e^e,|The beliwers of the gofpel, fo far as the tavthInf it reigns in their hearts, will ever be dif-r pofed to live peaceably, as much as in thempies, with all men. But the enemies of thegofpel; when it is plainly out of their pow-i er to overthrow the foundation of it, have byI infallible proofs endeavoured to terrify and• torment the followers of the Lamb of God,by violence and ill treatment, efpecmlly whenperfecution, when murdering-the people ofGod takes nothing out of their prickets, whenthey can effe&uate their diabolical rieftgns,without the formalities of procefs and con-vision, by maffacres and a(L ffmations, therethey will Ihew how far they have imbibediv PREFACE,the fpirit of jthe wicked one, in delightin;|tand glorying to be the tormentors and murderers of men. This tempef appears written upon the church of Rome, as with ariron pen, and the point of a diamond j as i;plain from the cruelties they exercifed uporthe Waldenfcs and Albigenfes ; from thehorrid maffacre of Paris, where indeed ncfaith was kept, but all faith broke with th<Proteftants: And concerning which inferna »cruelty, one of the great rpen of the churcf >of Rome, who had a very particular hand,in it, faid on his death-bed, That he was fc .far from repenting of it as a fin, that he look¬ed upon it as a moft ‘meritorious adion:.Yea, the beft deed he ever performed.The fame thing is plain from the follow¬ing narrative, which it is judged expedientto reprint at this time; when the fuccefforsof thefe bloody men are, like beafts of prey,beginning to look out from their dens, and!are not afhamed to ly in wait to deceive iniour moll populous cities. Still they dil'covertheir old temper by ftudying to recover the:free exercife of their formerly abufed pow- ;er, and exclaiming againft the rigour of thofelaws which were only impofed upon themas a neceflary check to their cruelty. Their icomplaints of fullering under the prefentlaw's in force, tho’ they were put in execu¬tion againlt them, are but like the out-criesof Potiphai’s wife, dgainft that fin, whichhad it been in her own power, Ihe wouldh ave committed wdth very good wilkA NABSTRACTOF THEBLOODY MASSACREI N1 I R E L A N D.HEN their plots were ripe for execu¬tion, we find their firft proceedingsagainft the tinglifh various: fame of the Info<piiiy dripping and expelling them; othen?^murdering men, women, and children with¬out mercy ; all refolving univerfally to rootall the Protellants cut of Ireland; fo deeply'malicious were they againft the Englilh Pro-reftants, that they would not fo much asnriur« the found of their language.The priefls gave the facrament unto divers!>f the Irifo, upon condition they would nei-er fpare man, woman nor child of the Pro-flams. One Halligan a prielf, read an ex-ommunication agamd all thofc, that fromenceforth fhould redicve or harbour any En-tlifo, Scotch, or Welchmen, or give them1ms, whereby many were famifoed to death,he friars exhorted them with tears, not toare any of the Englifo ; they boafled, thathen they had deflroyedthem in Ireland, theyould go over into England, and not leavere memorial of an Englifomah under heaven.They openly profdled, that they held itlawful to kill a Proteltant as to kill a don.6 THE BLOODY MASSACREOne of their priefts fail!, That it was no mor h'pity to take their fives from them, than to "taLr?a hone out of a ciof s month.The day before this mtsfiacre began, theOpriefts gave the people a diimifs at mafs withliliberty to go out and take pofltuTiou of all theirilands, as alfo to ftripf rob and defpoii themcr ad their goods and cattle; the Proteftantsbeing as they told them, worfe than dogs, forthey were devils, and therefore the killingof fuch was a Meritorious -fob and a rarepre-f.rvative againft the pains of Purgatory; andthis caufed iome of thefe nuirdere'rs to.boaft,after .they had flatn many of the Englilh,That they knew, that if they jhoulT die pre-fently, they would go Jtraight to heaven.The Irilh, when the maffacre began,'per-fuaded many of their Pfotellant neighboursto bring their goods to them and they wouldiecure them, and hereby they gof abundancepeaceably into their hands, whereof theycheated the Proteftants, refuting to reftorethem again ; yet fo confident were the Pro-teftants of them at firft, that they gave theminventories of all they had, and digged uptheir heft things that were hidden in theground • And depefited them into their duf-tody. They alfo got much into their handsby fair promifes, deep oaths and engage¬ments, that if they would deliver them theirgoods, they would fuffer them, with theirwives and children, quietly to depart thecountry ; and when they had got what theycould, they afterwards murdered them.IN IRELAND.Having thus feized upon their goods andcattle, ranfacked their houfes, got their per-fons, ftript man, ’woinad, and child naked,and fo turned them out of doors, flriftlyprohibiting the Irifb; under great penalties,to give them any relief, by means hereofmany perilhed miferably through cold, na-kednefs and hunger.In the tovtn of Colraine, cf thefe poorpeople that fled thither for fuccour, manythoufands died in two days, fo that the. liv¬ing could not bury the dead, but laid theircarcafes in ranks, in wafte and wide holes,piling thea* up as if they had been herrings.One Magdalen Kedman depofetlu that fhpand divers o*her Protidants, among whomwere two and twenty widows, were hr ft rob-’bed, and then {tripped naked, and when theyhad covered thenik Ives with ftravy, the bloodyPapifts threw in burning ftraw among them,on purpofe to binr them; then they drovethem out into the woods in froft and fnow,vi'here many of them died with extreme cold,and_rhofe that fut vived, lived miferably byreafon of their many wants.Yet though thefe bloody villains exercifedfuch inhuman cruelties among the poor Pro-t eft ants, they would commonly boaft, Thatthsfe were but the beginning, of their for rows,and indeed they made it good ; for havingd'tarmtd the hngUih, robbed them of theirgoods, ftript them of their clothe?, and hav¬ing their perfons in their power, they furi-oufly broke out into all manner of abomin-8 THE BLOODY MASSACREable cruelties, horrid mafiacres, and exe*>crable murders.There were multitudes murdered in coldblood, feme as they w'ere at plough, others intheir houfes, others in the highways; all with¬out any provocation, w'erefud^enlydeftroyed.In the caflle of Lifgool, were about onehundred and fifty men, women, and chil¬dren confumed with fire. At the caftle ofTullah, which was delivered to MacGuire,upon compofiticn, and faithful promifts offaii quarter, as foon as he and his gang en¬tered, they began to ftrip the people, andmoft cruelly put them to the fword, mur¬dering them all without mercy.At Liffanlkeach, they hanged and killedabove one hundred of the Scotch Prote-ftants- In the'counties of Armagh and Ty¬rone, where the Proteftants were more nu¬merous, their murders were more multipli¬ed, and with greater cruelty.MacGuire coming to the caftle of LifTan-ficeach, defined to fpeak with Mr. Middleton,who admitted him in, he firfl burn* the re¬cords of the county, then demanded ioocI.which was in the cuftody of Sir WilliamBalfores, which as foon as he had got, hecauftd Mr. Middleton to hear mafs, and tofvvear that he would never alter from it, andthen hanged him up, with his wife and chil¬dren; hanging and murdering above onehundred perfons befides, in that place.At Portadown-bridge, there were onethoufand men, women and children, carri-IN IRELAND. oed in feveral companies, and all unmerciful¬ly drowned in the river. Yea, in thatcountry there were one thoufand perfonsdrowned in feveral places.In one place, an hundred and forty Englifhwere taken and driven like cattle, for manymiles together, other companies they carri¬ed out to a fit place for execution, and thenmurdered them. One hundred and fifteeni men, women and children, they fent withSir Phelim O’Neal’s pafs til! they came toPortadown bridge, and there drowned them.At another time one hundred and fortyI Proteftants being thrown in at the fame place,as foon as any of them fwam to the fhore,the bloody villains, with the butt-end of theirmulkets, knocked out.their brains.At Armagh O’Cane put together all theProteftants thereabouts, pretending to con¬duct them to Colraine; but before they were1 a day’s journey, they were all murdered, andfo were many others, though they had pro-i te&ion from Sir Phelim O’Neal. The agedpeople in Armagh were carried to Charle-mont, and there murdered.Prefently after the town of Armagh wasburnt, and five hundred perfons murderedand drowned. In Killoman, forty-eight fa¬milies were murdered ; in one houfe twentytwo Proteftants were burned. In Kilmore,all the inhabitants were ftript and maftacred,being two hundred families: The wholecountry was a common butchery; manythousands perilhed by fword, famine, fire,I ' - ' '10 THE BLOODY MASSACREwater, and other deaths the molt cruel, thatra£6 and" malice could invent.At OaHte! they put all the proteftants in¬to a ioathforne dungeon, kept them twelveweeks in great nailery: Sonae they barbar-oufiy mangled, and left languifhing; fomethry hanged up twice or thrice, ethers theyburied alive.In Queen’s county, an Engliihman, hiswife, five children and a maid, were all hang¬ed together. At Clownilh feventeen menwere buried alive; fome were wounded, andhanged upon tenter-hooks. In Caftle Cum¬ber, t wo boys were wounded, and hung uponburchers’-tenters. Soine hanged up, and ta¬ken down to confefs money, arid then mur-dered. Some had th ir bellies ripped up, andwere left with their guts about their heels.in Kilkenhy, an EngHfh woman was beateninto a ditch were dte died; her child aboutiix years oid, they ripped up her b .llv, andlet out her guts. One they forced to i^afs,then they wounded him, ripped up his belly,took out his guts, and fo left him to die.A Scotchman they itripped, and hewedto pieces ripped up his wife’s belly, fo thather child dropped cut; many other.womenthey hung up with child, ripped up theirbellies, and let their infants falbout; fomeof the children they gave to the dogs.In the cSuaty of Armagh, they robbed,flipped, and murdered abundance of Prote-fiants, whereof fome they burned, fome theyflew^wirh the fvvord, fome they hanged, fomeIN IRELAND/ - r:ihey ftarved to death ; and meeting miftrefsHoward, and miftrefs Frank la ad with hx oftheir chndren, and themfelvesboth wklichild,they murdered them all, ripped open the gen-tlevtomen’s bellies, took out theif children,and threw them in the ditch. A young Scotchwoman’s child they took by the heels, anddaihed out its brains against a tree; the likethey did to many other children.-Ann Hill, going\vith a young child uponher back, and four •more by her kid e, theypulled the child off her back, trode on it tillit died dripped her and the other.four child-,ren naked, whereby they died of cold.Some others'they met with, hanged Themup upon a wind mill, and btibyre they werehalf dead, cut them in piece? with theirikeins.Many other Proteftants, efpecially womenand children, they pricked anddfibbed withikeins, forks and 1 words, flashing, cuttingand mangling them in their heads, but leftthem wallowing in their own blood, to Ian-guilh, ftarve, and pine to death.The caftle of Aifgoole,' being fet on fireby thefe mercilefs Papists, a woman leapedout at a window to lave her fed f from burning,whom they prefentiy murdered ; many fledto vaults And cellars, where they were ailmurdered. One Joan Add it they ftabbed,and then put her child of a quarter old toh r bread, and bade it fuck, Englifh baftard,and fo left it to perifh.One Marry Burlow had her hufbarrd hang- ’ed, herfelf with fix children ftripped naked,THE BLOODY MASSACREin froft and fnow, after which, fhelteringthemfelves in a cave; they had nothing thereto cat for three weeks, but two old calffkins,' which they beat with Hones, aj»U foat^ them hair and all.In the cold weather, many thoufands ofProteftants of all ranks, ages, and fexes, be¬ing turned out naked, perilhed of cold andhunger; thoufands of others were drowned,call into ditches, bogs, and turf-pits; multi¬tudes miferably burnt in houfes; feme thatlay Tick of fevers they hanged up; fome men,women and children they drove into boggypits, and knocked them on the head.Some aged men, and women, thefe barba¬rous Papifi® enforced their own children todrown them ; yea, fome children wrere com¬pelled unnaturally to execute their own pa¬rents, wives forced to hang their own huf-bands, and mothers to call their own childreninto the waters; after which themfelves weremurdered. In Sligo they forced a young manto kill his father, and then hanged him up, inanother place, they forced a woman to killher hufband, then caufed her fon to kill her,and then hanged the fon: yea, fuch was theirmalice againft the Englilh, thit they taughttheir children to kill Englilh children.The Irilh women that followed the camp,cried out. Kill them alLfpare neither man, wo¬man nor child. They- took the child of Tho¬mas Sorattan, being about twelve years old,and boiled him in a caldron. One good-wifeLinn, and her daughter, they carried into aI N I R E L A N D. 13wood, firft hanged the mother, and then thedaughter in the hdir of her mother’s head.In fome places they plucked out the eyes,and cut oft the hands of the Proteftahts, andturned them into the fields, where they pe¬riled. The women in fome places, {tonedthe Englifh women and children to death.One man they {hot through his thighs, dig¬ged a hole in the ground, fet him in uponhis feet, filled up the hole, left out only hishead, where he languished to death. Ano¬ther man they held his feet in the fire till hewas burnt to death.In Munfter, they hanged up many mini-fters in a moft barbarous manner. One mi-nifter they {tripped naked and drove himthrough the town, pricked him with dartsand rapiers, till he fell down dead.Thefe barbarous villains vowed. That if a-ny parents digged graves to bury their childrenin, they fooulf be buried therein themfelves.They {tripped one William Loverdon naked,then killed him before his wife and children.Divers minifter’s bones that had been buriedfome years before, they digged up, becaufethey were, as they fay, patrons of herefy.Poor children that went out into the fieldsto eat weeds and grafs, they killed withoutall pity.A poor woman whofe hutband was takenby them, went to them with two children ather feet, and one at her bread, hoping to begher huiband’s life, but they flew her and herfucking child ; brake the neck of another.!14 THE BI.OQ9T M VSSACTEand the third hardly efcaped; and all thiswickednefs they exercifed'upon the Englifh,withoat any provacation given them. Alas!who can comprehend the fears, terror?, an-guifh, bitrernefs, and perplexity that felzedupon the poor ProteflantsT finding themfelvesfo fnddeniy fur prized without remedy, andwrapped up in all kind of outward miferieswhich could poflibly by man be inflitfed onhuman creatures. What fighs and groans,trembling and aftonilhment! What fhrieks,cries, and bitter lahnentations of wives, child¬ren, ferVairts, and friends, howling and weep¬ing, finding themfelves without all hope ofdeliverance from their prefent miferies! Howinexorable were their barbarous tormenters,thaif compared them in on every fide, with¬out all bowels of companion, or the ieaftcommiferation or pity ! Yea, they boaftedupon their fuccefs, T/j.vt the day was- theire:vn, and that ere long they would not leavecne Prolefiant rogue L+'nig, but would utterlydejlncy every one that had a drop of Englijhblood in them. Their women crying out, Slaythem all. the Enghjh 'are ft meat for dogs, andtheir children are bajlard..Thsfe mercilefs Papifts, having fet a cadleon tire, wherein were many Prote'bnts, theyrejoicing laid, 0 how'fwectly do they fry?At Kiik. nftiy, when.they had committedmany cruel murders, they brought feven Pro-teftants’ heads, one the h ead of a reverend mi-nifier, all which they let upon the-market-crois, on a market-day, triumphing, flalhing[IN IRELAND. 15and mangling them: they put a gag in theminifter’s mouth, ftit up his cheeks ti) his ears,and laid a leaf of the Bible upon it, and badehim preach, for his mouth was wide enough#*At Kiimore, they put many Proteftants,men, women and children into a thatchedhojii'e, and there burnt them. They threwMrs. Maxwell into the river when in labour,the child being half born when the motherf- was drowned.j1 In one place they burnt , two Froteftants*i Bibles, and thnn laid, It was hell fire they|; burnt* Ocher iiibles they took, cut In pieces,I and then burnt them, faying. They would doI the like to all pur 1 tar Bibles* t hey took the‘ Bible of a mkiifter, called Mr. Edward Slack,, and opening it, they laid k in a puddle of wa¬ter, and then ftampeUip.onlt frying, A plague.] on it. This Bible has bred all the quarrel.At Glaftow, a pried, withhome others,drew about forty Engliui and Scotch Pro-1 teftants to be reconciled to the church ofRome, and then told them, They were in agood faith, and for fear they Ihouid fall from; it. and turn heretics, lie with his compan¬ions prefently cut all their throats.In the county of Tipperary, near the Silver] Works Tome of thefe barbarous Papins metwith eleven Englifnmen, ten Vow n, and femechildren, whom they frit ftri i , and thenwith hones, pole-axes,Tkeins. ,words, &c.' they moft barbaroufly dehroyed them allIn the county of Mayo about fikty Prote-ilarits, whereof fifteen were ministers, werei5 THE BLOODY MASSACREupon covenant to be fafely conveyed to Gal¬way, by one Edmond Burk, and his fo!di-ers; but by the way, this Burk and his |company began to maffacre thefe poor Pro-1tedants, fome they Ihot to death, fome they |dabbed with fkeins, fome they thrufl through j.iwith their pikes, fome they drowned; thewomen they dripped naked, who lying u-pon their huiband’s to fave them, were runthro* with pikes, fo that very few of themefcaped with life.In the town of Sligo, forty Protedantswere dripped, and locked up in a cellar, andabout mid-night, a butcher provided for thepurpofe, was fent in among them, who withhis ax butchered them all.In Terawly, thirty or forty Engiifh, whohad yielded to go to mafs, were put to theirchoice, Whether they would die by the /word,or be drowned, they chofe the latter; and fo,being driven to the fea-fide, thefe barbarousvillains, with their naked fwords, forced theminto the fea; the mothers with their childrenin theirarms, wading to the chin, u’ere over¬come by the waves, whereby they all peridied.The ion of Mr. Montgomery a minider,aged about fifteen years, met with his fchool-mader, who drew his fkein at him, where¬upon the bov faid. Good mafler, whip me asmuch as yoii will) but do not kill me. Yetthis mercilefs tyger, barbaroufly murderedhim without all pity.In the town of Sligo, all the Protedantswrere fird robbed of their edates, then cadIN IRELAND. 17into goal, and about midnight were all drip¬ped naked, and there moft cruelly and barba-roufly murdered with fwords, axes, ikeins, &c»fome of them being women great with child,their infants thruft out their arms and legs attheir wounds, after which execrable murders,thefe hell hounds laid the dead naked bodiesof the men upon the naked bodies of thewomen, in a moft immodeft pofture, wherethey left them till the next day to be lookedupon by the Irilh, who beheld it with greatdelight. Alfo Ifobel Baird, great with child,hearing the lamentable cries of thofe theywere murdering, ran out into the ftreets,where ftie was murdered, and the next daywas found with the child’s feet coming outof the wxmnds in her ftdes; many otherswere murdered in the houfes and ftreets.About Dungannon, were three hundredand fixteen Proteftants in the like barbarous! manner murdered ; about Charlemont, a-j bove four hundred; about Tyrone, twoI hundred and fix.One MacCraw, murdered thirty-one inone morning.Two young villains murdered a hundredpoor women and children that could makeno refiftance. An Irilh woman, with herown hands, murdered forty-five.AtPortadown-Bridge w ere drowned abovethree hundred. At Laugh were drowned a-bove two hundred in one day In the parifh| of Killamen, there were murdered one thou-fand and two hundred Proteftants.jS TK*’ BrOODY MASSACREMany young children they cut in quarter?;eighteen Scotch infants diey_hanged uponclothiers tenterhooks; one fat man theymurdered and made candles of bis grrd'e;another Scotchman they ripped up his belly,took one end of his finalL guts, tied- it to atree, and forced him round about it, tillthey had drawn them all out of his body,faying, 7bat they would try whither a dog's ora Scotchman s guts wire the tongejl.By the c&mmanu of Sir Phenm O’Neil:Mr. James Maxwell was drawn out of hisbed'being ficK of a fever, and murdered;his wife being in child-birth, the child beinghalf born, they dripped nuked, drove herabout a flight /hot, and drowned her in thebla* k water; the like or worfe, they did toanother Englifii woman in the fame town.One Mr. Watfcn they roafted alive. AScotch woman great with child, they rippedup her belly, cut the child out of her womb,and fo left it crawling on her body.Mr. Sturkey. fchaoj-mafier at Armagh,being above one hundred years old, they/tripped him naked, then took his twodaughters, being virgins, whom they alfollripped naked, and then forced them tolead their aged-father to a turf-pit, w herethey drowned them ail three..To one Henry Crowe), a gallant gentle¬man, they proffered his life, if he would mar¬ry one of their trulls, or go to mafs; but hechofe death rather than confent to either.Many of the Pr.oteftants they buried alive.IN IRELAND, 19foiacing themfelves, while they were digging!do\vn old ditches upon them.They brake the back-bone of a youth, and‘ left him in the fields; fome days after, he wasfound, having eaten the grafs round abouthirn: neither then would they kill him o?u-right, but removed him to better palture,w’herein was fulfilled that faying, The tender1 mercies of the wicked are cruel.In the county of Antrim, they murderednine hundred and fifty-four Protdlants inone morning; and afterwards about twelvehundred more in that county near Lifnega-ry, they forced twenty-four Proteftants into'a houfe, and burnt them all.Sir Phelim 0‘Neal boafted, that he hadflain above fix hundred at Garvah, and that-he had left neither man, woman, nor childalive in the barony of Munterlong.' In c-ther places he murdered above two thoufandperfons in their houfes, fo that many houfeswere filled with dead bodies.Above twelve thoufand wrere flain in thehighways, as they fled towards Down. Ma¬ny died of famine ; many died for wai.t ofclothes, being dripped naked in a cold feafon:fome thoufands were drowned, fo that in theprovince of Ulder, there were about onehundred and fifty thoufand murdered byfundry kinds of torments and deaths.Ihe Popifli English were no whit infe’-f-or; yea, rather exceeded the natural Irdoin their cruelty againft the Proteftams thatlived atnongft them, within the pale; not20 THE BLOODY MASSACREbeing fatisfied with their blood tiil they hadfeen the Jaft drop thereof.Ann Kinnaird teftified, That fifteen Prote-ftants being imprifoned, and their feet in theflocks, a Popifh boy not above fourteen yearsold, flew them all in one night with his fkein. .An Englifh woman, who was newly deli¬vered of tw’o children, fome of thefe villainsviolently compelled her, in great pain andfkknefs, to rife out of her bed, and took oneof the infants that was living, and riafhed hisbrams againfl the flones, and then threw himinto the river of Barrow. The like they didto many other infants. Many others theyhanged up without all pity.The Lord Montgarret. caufed divers En-glifh foldiers, that he had taken about Kil¬kenny, to be hanged, hardly fuffering themto pray before their death.One Fitz Patrick, an IrifhPapift, enticeda rich merchant that was a Proteftant, tobring all his goods to his houfe, promifingto keep them fafely, and to re-deliver them'to him; but when he had gotten them intohis poiTeflion, he took the merchant and hiswife and hanged them both: The like theydid to divers ethers. Some Englifhmen’sheads they cut off and carried them to Kil¬kenny, and on the market-day fet them onthe crofs j where many, efpeeially the wo*{jjen, (tabbed cut and flafhed them.A poor Proteftant woman with her twochildren, going to Kilkenny, thefe bloodymifereants baited them with the dogs, Itab-IN IRELAND. 21bed them with ikeins, and pulled out the gutsy died;womenone ofthe women being great with child, they rip¬ped up her belly as (he hanged, fo that thechild fell out in the cawl alive. Some afterthey were hanged, they drew up and downtill their bowels were torn out.How many thoufands of Proteftants werethus inhumanly butchered by fundry kindsof deaths, we cannot afcertain.In the province of Ulfter,. we find aboutone hundred and fifty thoufand murdered,as before: What the number of the flain wasin the three other provinces, we find not u-pon record, but certainly it was very great,for you have tlufe paffages in a general re-mon'trance, of the diftreffed Proteftants inthe province of Munfter, “We may, fay1 they, compare our woe to the faddeft paral¬lel of any ftory, our churches are profanedby facrifices to idols; our habitations are be¬come ruinous heaps; no quality, age, or fex;1 privileged from maffacre, and lingeringdeaths, by being robbed, ftripped naked,and fo expofed to cold and famine. The fa-. milhed infants of murdered parents fwarmin our ftreets; and for want of food, perifhbefore our faces, &c. And all this crueltythat is exercifed upon us, we know not forwhat caufe, offence, or feeming provoca¬tion that is inflidted on us, (fin excepted) fay¬ing that we are Protestants, &c. Whoof one of the children, whereby theand not far off they took divers men,and children, and hanged them up;22 THE BLOODY MASSACREcan make it manifeft, that the depopii’a'tions in this province of Munfter do wellnear equal thofe of the whole kingdom.”And thus in part you have heard of themercilefs cruelties which the bloody Papiftsexercifed towards the Proteflants: Let usnow confider. at leaft, fome of God’s judge¬ments upon the Irilh, whereby he hath notleft the innocent blood of his fervants to bealtogether unrevenged.Thefe bloody hell-hounds themfelves con-fefied. That the ghofts of divert, of the Pro-teftants which they had drowned at Porta-down Bridge were daily feen walking uponthe river, fometimes finging pfahns, fome-times brandifiiing naked fwords, fometimesfhrieking in a mod hideous and fearful man¬ner- So that many of the Irilh Papifts whichdwelt thereabouts, being affrighted there¬with, were forced to remove their habita¬tions farther off into the country.Katharine Cook teftified upon oath. Thatwhen the Irifh had barbaroufiy drojwned onehundred and eighty Protedam men, women,and children, at Portadov/n Bridge; aboutnine days after fhe faw the apparition of aman bolt upright in the river, danding bread-high, with his hands lift up to heaven, and.continued in that pofture from Decemberto the end,of Lent, at which time fome oftho Englifh army palling that way, faw it al-fo, after which it vanifhed away.Elizabeth Price, tedined upon oath. Thatfhe and other women, whefe hufbands andIN IRELAND, ^children were drowned in that place, hearingof thefe apparitions, went thither one even¬ing, at which time they favv one like a wo-~man rife out of the river, breaft-high, her hair-hanging down, which with her (kin, was aswhite as fnow, often crying out, Revenge,revenge* revenge, which fo affrightedthem, that they went their way. Divers Pro-teffants were thrown into the river at Bel-I! terbert, and when any of them offered toI fwim to the land, they were knocked on the! head with poles, after vyhich their bodieswere not fee.n for fix weeks; but after theend thereof, the murderers coming again thatway, the bodies came floating up to the verybridge -ahere they were.Sir Con. MacGennis with his companyflew Mr. Purge, minifter of Newry, with di-vers other Proteflants, after which, the faidMaeGehnis was To affrighted with the appre-henfion of the faid Mr Turge his being con¬tinually iji his prefence, that he command¬ed his fokiiers not to flay any more of them,but fuch as fhould be fiain in battleA young woman being dripped naked,there c^me a rogue to her. bidding her. Givehim her money, or he. would run her throughivlth his fword. Her anfwer was, Tou can¬not kill me except God give you leave; w here¬upon he ran three timerat her- naked bodywith his drawn fword, and yet never piercedher (kin, whereat he being confounded, wenthis way and left her. This 'was attefted bydivers women that were prefen? and faw it.24 THE BLOODY MASSACRE, &c.As for the proteftant minifters whom theifurprifed, their manner was firft to ftrip thei land after bind them to a tree or poft, wher-they pleafed, ind then ravifh their wdves amdaughters before their faces (in light of altheir mercilefs rabble) with the bafeft villains they could pick out, after which the)hanged up their hulbands and parents beforetheir faces, and then cut them down beforethey were half dead, |hen quartered them,after difmembered them, and flopped theirmouths therewith.They bafely abufed one Mr. TrafFord aminifter in the north of Ireland, who wasalfaulted by thefe bloody wolves of Rome’sbrood that knew not God, nor any bowelsof mercy. Th^ dHlrefled minifter defiredbut fo much time as to call upon God, be¬fore he went out of the world: But thefemerciiefs wretches would admit no time,but inftantly fell upon him, hacked andhewed, him to pieces.They ravifhed Sir BarckDunfian’s wife be¬fore him, llew his fervants, fpurned his chil¬dren till they died, bound him with a matchto a board that his eyes burft out, cut off hisears and nofe. tore 'off both his cheeks, aftercut off his arms and legs, cut cut his tongue.And after ran a red hot iron into him.Thefe particulars with many more wereattefted before the Commiffioners appointedfor that purpofe.GLASGOW,Printed by J. and M, P.03LRTS0N, S,U:marKet, i8<5o.