theJjAIRll OFWOOL’S GHOST:BEINGr'Several Conferences and Meetings betwixt tnaReverend Mr. O GIL VIE,Late Minister of the Gospel at Innerwick;AND THEGHOST of Mr. MAXWELL,LATE LAIRD OF COOL;is it was found, in Mr. Ogilvie’s Closet afterhis Death—Written with his own hand.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOO-KSELLERS.l8-{ * OF SCOTLAND iV^DinbU^^^• ' '■■: ■,:-■' ■.. ■ . ■THBLAIRD OF®(!)0acS 0[D03t3cUpon the third day of February, 1722, at seveno’clock in the evening, after I had parted withThurston, and coming up the burial road, onecame up riding after me : upon hearing the noiseof the horse’s feet, I took it to be Thurston, butlooking back, and seeing the horse of a grey col¬our, I called, Who’s there ? the answer was theLaird of Cool, be not afraid. Looking to himwith the little light the moon afforded, I tookhim to be Collector Castlelaw, who had a mindto put a trick upon me, and immediately I struckwith all my force with my cane, thinking I wouldleave a mark upon him that would make him re¬member his presumption; but although sensibleI aimed as well as ever I did in my life, yet mycane finding no resistance, but flying out of myhand to the distance of sixty feet, and observingit by its white head, I dismounted and took itup, but had some difficulty in mounting again,4partly by reason of a certain sort of tremblingthroughout my whole joints, something also oranger had its share in my confusion; for thoughhe laughed when my staff flew out of my hand,coming up with him again, (who halted all thetime I was seeking my staff,) I asked him oncemore who he was ? he answered, The Laird ofCool. I enquired, First, if he was the Laird ofCool. Secondly, What brought him thither?and, Thirdly, What was his business with me ?he answered, The reason that I want you is,that I know you are disposed to do for me whatnone of your brethren in Nithsdale will so muchas attempt, though it serve never so good a pur¬pose. I told him, I would never refuse to doany thing to serve a good purpose, if I thoughtI was obliged to do it as my duty. He answered,Since I had undertaken what few in Nithsdalewould, for he had tried several persons on thatsubject, who were more obliged to him than Iwas to any person living. Upon this I drew mybridle reins, and asked in surprise, what I hadundertaken ? he answered, That on Sabbath last,I heard you condemned Mr. Paton, and the otherministers of Dumfries, for dissuading Mr. Menziesfrom keeping his appointment with me; and ifyou had been in their place, would have persuadedthe lad to do as I desired, and that you would havegone with him yourself, if he had been afraid; andif you had been in Mr. Patou’s place, you wouldhave delivered my commissions yourself, as theytended to do several persons justice. I asked;him, Pray, Cool, who informed you that I talk¬ed at that rate ? to which he answered, You mustknow that we are acquainted with many thingsthat the living know nothing about; these thingsi you did say, and much more to that purpose, anddelivermy commissions to my loving wife. Uponi this I said, ’tis a pity Cool, that you who knowIso many things should not know the differenceIbetween an absolute and conditional promise; 1I did, indeed, at the time you mention, blame Mr.I Paton, for I thought him justly blameable, int hindering the lad to meet with you, and if I hadj been in his place, I would have acted quite the9 reverse ; but I did never say, that if you would1 come to Innerwick and employ me, that I wouldgo all the way to Dumfries on such an errand, thatis what never so much as entered into mythoughts. He answered, What were your(thoughts I don’t pretend to know, but I can de¬pend on my information these were your words ;but I see you are in some disorder, I will wait( upon you when you have more presence of mind.Py this time we were at James Dickso n’sinclosure, below the church-yard ; and \? «)en Iwas recollecting in my mind, if ever I had spokenthese words he alledged, he broke off from methrough the church-yard, with greater violencethan any man on horseback is capable of, withsuch a singing and buzzing noise, as put me ingreater disorder than I was in all the time I waswith him. I came to my house, and my wifeobserved more than ordinary paleness in my coun¬tenance, and alledged that something ailed me.I called for I dram, and told her I was a littleuneasy. After I found myself a little refreshed,I went to my closet to meditate on this most as¬tonishing adventure.Upon the 5th of March, 1722, being at Hare-head, baptizing the shepherd’s child, I came offabout sunsetting, and near Wm. White’s march,the Laird of Cool came up with me as formerly ;and after his first salutation, bade me not beafraid. I told him I was not in the least afraid,in the name of GOD and Christ my Saviour,that he would do me the least harm; for I knewthat he in whom I trusted, was stronger than allthey put together; and if any of them should at¬tempt to do, even to the horse that I ride upon,as you have done to Doctor Menzie’s man, I havefree access to complain to my Lord and Master,to the lash whose resentment you are liable asnow as before.f/Cool. You need not multiply words on thathead, for you are safe with me, and safer, if safercan be, than when I was alive.Ogil. Well then Cool, let me have a peace¬able and easy conversation with you for the timewe ride together, and give me some informationconcerning the affairs of the other world, for noman inclines to lose his time in conversing withthe dead, without hearing or learning somethinguseful.Cool. Well, Sir, I will satisfy you as far r.sI think proper and convenient. Let me knowwhat information you want.Ogil. May I then ask you, if you be in astate of happiness or not ?Cool. There are a great many tilings I cananswer, that the living are ignorant of; there area great many things that, notwithstanding theadditional knowledge I have acquired since mydeath, I cannot answer; and there are a greatmany questions you may start, of which the lastis one, that I will not answer.Ogil. Then I know how to manage our con¬versation ; whatever I enquire of you, I see youcan easily shift me ; to that I might profit moreby conversing with myself.Cool. You may try.Ogil. Well, then, what sort of a body is that8you appear in ; and what sort of a horse is thatyou lide upon, which appears to be so full ofmetal ?Cool. You may depend upon it, it is not thesame body that I was witness to your marriagein, nor in which I died, for that is in the gravelotting ; but it is such a body as serves me in amoment, for I can fly as fleet with it as my soulcan do without it; so that I can go to Dumfries,and return again, before you can ride twice thelength of your horse, nay, if I have a mind togo to London, or Jerusalem, or to the moon, ifyou please, I can perform all these journiesequally soon, for it costs me nothing but a thoughtor wish : for this body is as fleet as your thought,for in the moment of time you can turn yourthoughts on Rome, I can go therein person : andas for my horse, he is much like myself, for heis Andrew Johnston, my tenant, who died forty-eight hours before me.Ogil. So it seems when Andrew Johnstoninclines to ride, you must serve him in the qualityof an horse, as he does you now.Cool. You are mistaken.Ogil. I thought that all distinctions betweeimistresses and maids, lairds arrl tenants, had beendone away at death.9Cool. True it is, but you go not take up themat tea,Ogil. This is one of the questions you won'tanswer.Cool. You are mistaken, for the question Ican answer, and after you may understand it.Ogil. Well then. Cool, have you never yetappeared before God, nor received any sentencefrom him as a Judge.Cool. Never yet.Ogil. I know you was a scholar, Cool, and’tis generally believed there is a private judg¬ment, besides the general at the great day, theformer immediately after death.—Upon this heinterrupted me, arguing.Cool. No such thing, no such thing! Notrial, no trial till the great day! The heavenwhich good men enjoy after death, consists onlyin the serenity of their minds, and the satisfactionof a good conscience ; and the certain hopes theyhave of eternal joy, when that day shall come.The punishment or hell of the wicked, immediate¬ly after death, consists in the stings of an awa¬kened conscience, and the terrors of facing thegreat Judge! and the sensible apprehensions ofeternal torments ensuing! And this bears still adue proportion to the evils they did when living.So indeed the state of some good folks differ but10little in happiness from what they enjoyed in theworld, save only that they are free from the body,and the sins and sorrows that attended it. Onthe other hand, there are some who may be saidrather not to have been good, than that they arewicked ; while living, their state is not easily dis¬tinguished from that of the former; and underthat class comes a great herd of souls: a vastnumber of ignorant people, who have not muchminded the affairs of eternity, but at the sametime have lived in much indolence, ignoranceand innocence.Ogil. I thought that their rejecting the termsof salvation offered, was sufficient ground forGod to punish them with eternal displeasure;and as to their ignorance, that could never excusethem, since they live in a place of the world,where the true knowledge of these things mighthave been easily attained.Cool. They never properly rejected the termsof salvation; they never, strictly speaking, re¬jected Christ; poor souls, they had as great aliking both to him and heaven, as their gross im¬aginations were capable of: Impartial reasonmust make many allowances, as the stupidity oftheir parents, want of education, distance frompeople of good sense and knowledge, and the un¬interrupted applications they were obliged toriij give to their secular affairs for their daily bread,1 the impious treachery of their pastors, who per¬suaded them, that if they were of such a partyi all was well; and many other considerations! which God, who is pure and perfect reason itself,i will not overlook : these are not so much under the1 load of divine displeasure, as they are out of hisi| grace and favour; and you know it is one thingi to be discouraged, and quite another thing to be| persecuted with all the power and rage of an in-;i censed earthly king. I assure you, mens’ faces5 are not more various and different in the wrorld,than their circumstances are after death.Ogil. I am loath to believe all that you have•i said at this time, Cool, (but I will not disputet those matters with you) because some things you1 have advanced seem to contradict the Scriptures,which I shall always look upon as the infallibletruth of God. For I find, in the parable of Divess and Lazarus, that the one was immediately after» death carried up by the angels into Abraham’sbosom, and the other immediately thrust downto hell.Cool. Excuse me, Sir, that does nor con¬tradict one word that I have said, but you seemI not to understand the parable, whose only end isto illustrate the truth, that a man be very happyand fio risking in this world, and wretched and12miserable in the next; and that a man maymiserable in this world, and happy and gloriorin the next.Ogil. Be it so, Cool, I shall yield that poito you, and pass to another, which has affordme much speculation since our last encounterand that is, How you came to know that I talked after the manner that I did concerning MrBaton, on the first Sabbath of February lastWas you present with me, but invisible? Hianswered very haughtily, No, Sir, I was not present myself. I answered, I would not have yoiangry, Cool, I proposed this question for myown satisfaction, but if you don’t think proper tanswer, let it pass. After he had paused, withis eyes on the ground, for three or four minutof time at most, with some haste and seeming*cheerfulness, says.Cool. Well, Sir, I will satisfy you in thatlpoint. You must know that there are sent from!heaven, angels to guard and comfort and to do?other good services to good people, and even thespirits of good men departed are employed inthat errand.Ogil. And do you not think that every manhas a good angel ?Cool. No, but a great many particular menhave: there are but few houses of distinctionii13«inTfespecially, but what have at least one attendingthem; and from what you have already heard of.spirits, it is no difficult matter to understand howthey may be serviceable to each particular mem¬ber, though at different places at a great distance.Many are the good offices which the good angelsdo to them that fear God, though many timesthey are not sensible of it: and I know assuredly,that one powerful angel, or even an active cleversoul departed, may be sufficient for some villages;but for your great cities, such as London, Ed¬inburgh, or the like, there is one great angel,that has the superintendance of the whole ; andthere are inferior angels, or souls departed, towhose particulars care such a man, of such a par¬ticular weight or business, is committed. Now,Sir, the kingdom of Satan does ape the kingdomof Christ as much in matters of politics, as canbe, well knowing that the court of wisdom is fromabove ; so that from thence are sent out mission¬aries in the same order. But because the king-,! dom of Satan is much better replenished thani the other, instead of one devil, there are in manyi instances two or three commissioned to attend aparticular family of influence and distinction.Ogil. I read that there are ten thousanditimes ten thousand of angels that wait upon God,land sing his praise and do his will, and I cannot14understand how the good angels can be interiorin number to the evil.Cool. Did not I say that whatever the num¬ber be, the spirits departed are employed in thesame business ; so that as to the number of ori¬ginal deities, whereof Satan is chief, I cannotdetermine, but you need not doubt but there are jmore souls departed in that place, which in a loose |sense you call hell, by almost an infinity, than ,what are gone to that place, which in a like sense ;!you call heaven, which likewise are employed inthe same purpose ; and I can assure you that thereis as great a difference between angels, both good;;and bad, as there is among men, with respect to Itheir sense, knowledge, cunning, cleverness, andaction; nay, which is more, the departed souls;!on both sides, out do severals, from their veryfirst departure, of the original angels. Thisjyou will perhaps think a paradox, but is true.Ogil. I do not doubt it, but what is that to Imy question, about which I am solicitous ?Cool. Take a little patience, Sir ; from whanI have said you might have understood me, ifl!you had your thoughts about you; but I shalliljexplain myself to you. Both the good and thebad angels have stated times of rendezvous, andithe principal angels, who have the charge eithe# •of towns, cities, or kingdoms, not to mention par- teular persons, villages, and families, and all thattransacted in these several parts of the coun-y, are there made open : and at their re-encoun-|r on each side, every thing is told, as in yourrish, in milns, kilns, and smithies, with this'fference that many things false are talked ate living re-encounters, but nothing but whatexact truth, is said or told among the dead ;ly I must observe to you, that, as I am credit-ly informed, several of the inferior bad angels,d souls of wicked men departed, have toldny things that they have done, and then whenore intelligent spirit is sent out upon enquiry,t the report of the former seeming doubtful,brings in a contrary report, and makes it ap-ar truth, the former fares very ill: neverthelessir regard to truth prevents it; for while theyserve the truth, they do their business andp their station, for God is truth.Ogil. So much truth being among the goodels, I am apt to think that lies and falsehood1 be as much in vogue among the bad.Cool. A gross mistake, and it is not alone thestake which the living folks fall under withject to the other world; for the case plainlythis, an ill man will not stick at a falsehood tounote his design; as little will an evil soul de-ted, stop at any thing that can make himselfmn{<5successful; but in admitting’ report he roust tdjthe truth, or woe be to him. But besides thenmonthly, quarterly, or yearly meetings, or iever they be, departed souls acquainted, maya trip to see one another yearly, weekly, cor oftener if they please. Thus then I aryour question that you was so much concerne*about; for my information was from no less thaithree persons, viz. Aikman, who attends Thurston’s family; James Corbet, who w7aits upoiMr. Paton; for at that time he was then looking after Mrs. Sarah Paton, w'ho was at youhouse; and an original emissary appointed twait upon yours.At this I was much surprised, and after a littie thinking, I asked him, And is there reallvCool, an emissary from hell, in whatever sensyou take it, that attends my family ?Cool. You may depend upon it.Ogil. And what do you think is his busineiCool. To divert you from your duty, £jause you to do as many ill things as he can ;much depends on having the minister on tliUpon this I was struck with a sort of terrwhich I cannot account for. In the mean tihe said several things I did not understand. Iside.after coming to my former presence of mind, sa?«17Ogil. But, Cool, tell me in earnest, if there.ijbe a devil that attends my family, though in vis¬ible.CooL Just as sure as you are breathing, buti be not so much dejected upon this information,or I tell you likewise, that there is a good angel■vho attends you, who is stronger than the other.Ogil. Are you sure of that, Cool ?Cool. Yes, there is one riding on your rightand, who might as well have been elsewhere,r I meant you no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been with me?Cool. Only since w'e passed Brand’s-lee, butow he is gone.Ogil. Wc are just upon Elenscleugh, and Ipsire to part with you, though perhaps I haveined more by conversation than I could haveher wise done in a twelvemonth ; 1 choose rath-to see you another time, when you’re at leisured I wish it were at as great a distance fromnerwick as you can.Cool. Be it so, Sir; but I hope you will beobliging to me, next re-encounter, as 1 haven to you this.Dgil. I promise you I will, as far as is con-ent with my duty to my Lord and Master1st Jesus: and since you have obliged me sosHl10c.4uch by information, 1 will answer all the quos-18tions you propose, as far as consists with my:knowledge; but I believe you want no infonna-jtion from me.Cool. I came not here to be instructed byjyou, but I want your help of another kind.Upon the 5th of April, 1722, as I was return¬ing from Old Hamstocks, Cool came up with jme on horseback at the foot of the ruinous in-closure, before we came to Dod; I told him his.last conversation had proved so acceptable to me, Jthat I was well pleased to see him again; that:!there was a number of things that I wanted to jinform myself further of, if he would be so goodias satisfy me.Cool. Last time we met, I refused you noth¬ing you asked; and now I expect that you shallrefuse me nothing that I shall ask.Ogil. Nothing, Sir, that is in my power, oijthat I can do with safety to my reputation andlcharacter. What then are your demands.Cool. All that I desire of you is, that as you >promised that on a Sabbath day you would goto my wife, who now possesses all my effects) hand tell her the following particulars: and telllher in my name to rectify these matters. First)That I was owing justly to Provost Crosby, 501 'Scots, and three years interest, but on hearinj (of his death, my good-brother the Laird of C|vand I forced a discharge, narrated the bond, thesum, and other particulars, with this honourableclause, “ And at the time it had fallen by, andcould not be found.” With an obligation on theProvost’s part to deliver up this Bond as soon ashe could bit upon it. And this discharge wasdated three months before the Provost’s death.And when his son and successor, Andrew Cros¬by, wrote to me concerning this Bond, I cameto him and shewed him the forged discharge,which silenced him; so that I got up my bondwithout more ado. And when I heard of RobertKennedy’s death, with the same help of C—1, Igot a bill upon him for 1901. of which I got fulland complete payment, C—1 got the half. WhenI was at Dumfries, the same day that RobertGrier died, to whom I was owing an account of361. C—1, my good-brother, was then at Lon¬don, and not being able of myself, being but abad writer, to make out a discharge of the ac¬count, which I wanted, I met accidently withne Robert Boyd, a poor Writer lad in Dumfries;II took him to Mrs. Carnock’s, and gave him abottle of wine, and told him I had paid Thomasi Grier’s account but had neglected to get a dis-Jbharge, and if he would help me to one I would(reward him. He flew away from me in a greatilbassion, saying, he would rather be hanged ; but20if I had a mind fo* these tilings, 1 liaa betterwait till C—1 came home. This gave me greattrouble, fearing what C—1 and I had done for¬merly was no secret. I followed Boyd to thestreet, and made an apology, saying, I was jest¬ing, commending him for his honesty, and gothis promise never to repeat what had passed. Isent for my Cousin B—m II—rie, your good-brother, who with no difficulty, for a guinea anda half, undertook and performed all that I wanted; and for a guinea more made me up a dischargefor 2001, Scots that I was owing to your father-in-law, and his friend Mr. Muirhead, which dis¬charge I gave to John Ewart, when he desiredthe money, and he at my desire, produced it toyou, which you sustained.A great many of the like instances were told,of which I cannot remember the persons namesand things; but, says he, what vexes me morethan all these, is the injustice I did Homer Max¬well, tenant to my Lord Nithsdale, for whom Iwas factor. I borrowed 20001. from him, 5001of which he borrowed from another hand : I gavehim my bond, and, for reasons I contrived, I ob¬liged him to secrecy. He died within the year,and left nine children, his wife being dead beforehimself. I came to seal up his papers for mylord’s security; his eldest daughter intreated me211.1) look through them all, anc5 to give her an ac-ount what was their stock, and what was theirhbt. I very willingly undertook it, and in go-|g through the papers, I put my own bond iny pocket. His circumstances proving bad, hisjne children are now starving. These things Iijjsire you to represent to my wife, and take heri-other with you, and let them be immediatelyjctified, for she has a'sufficient fund to do it up-ii; and if it were done. I think I would be easylid therefore I hope you will make no delay.! After a short pause, I answered, Tis a goodrand Cool, you are sending me to do justice toe oppressed and injured; but notwithstandingee myself come in for 2001. Scots, yet I begittle time to consider the matter. And sincend you are as much master, of reason now asr, and more than ever, I will reason upon thetter in its general view, and then with respectthe expediency of my being the messenger;d this I will do with all manner of frankness,om what you have said, I see clearly whatur present condition is, so that I need not asky more questions on that head; and you needbid me take courage, for at this moment 1no more afraid of you than a newborn child,ool. Well, say on.lOgil. Tell me then, since such is your ability22ithat you can fly a thousand miles in the twinkliiof an eye, if your desire to do the oppressed jutice, be as great as you pretend, what’s the re^on you dont fly to the coffers of some rich J*or Banker, where are thousands of gold andver, invisibly left, and invisibly return it tocoffers of the injured ? And since your wife 1:sufficient fund, and more, why cannot you emher purse invisibly, to make these people amencCool. Because I cannot.Ogil. You have satisfied me entirely up'that head. But pray, Cool, what is the reaS'that you cannot go to your wife yourself, a:tell her what you have a mind; I should thithis a more sure way to gain your point.Cool. Because I will not.Ogil. That is not an answer to me, CoolCool. That is one of the questions that 11(you long ago I would not answer: but if youas I desire, I promise to give you full satisfactiafter you have done your business. Trust Ifor onoe, and believe me I will not disappoiyou.Upon the 10th of April, 1722, comimg frOld Cambus, upon the post road, I met wCool on the head of the heath called the PeHe asked me, if I had considered the matterhad recommended ? I told him I had, and was i23i»the same opinion I was in when we parted; thatI would not possibly undertake his commissions,unless he could give me them in writing undernis hand. I told him that the list of his grievan¬ces were so great, that I could not possibly re¬member them without being put in waiting; andthat I wanted nothing but reason to determineme in that, and all other affairs of my life.—Iknow, says he, this is a mere evasion: but tellme if the Laird of Thurston will do it ? I am sure,said I, he will not: and if he should, I would doall that I could to hinder him; for I think he hasas little to do in these matters as myself. Buttell me, Cool, Is it not as easy to write your sto¬ry as tell it, or ride on what-do-ye-call-him ? forI have forgot your horse’s name.Cool. No, Sir, it is not; and perhaps I mayconvince you of the reasonableness of it after¬wards.Ogil. I would be glad to hear a reason thatis solid, for not speaking to your wife yourself,but, however, any rational creature may see whata fool I would make of myself, if I would go toDumfries, and tell your wife you had appearedto me, and told so many forgeries and villaniesthat you had commited, and that she behoved tomake reparation; the consequence might perhapsbe, that she would scold me; for she would be24loath to part with any money she possesses, andtherefore tell me I was mad, or possibly pursueme for calumny; how would I vindicate myself,how could I prove that you ever spoke with me ?Mr. Paton, and other ministers, in Dumfrieswould tell me, the devil had spoken with me; andwhy should I repeat these things for truth, whichhe, that was a liar from the beginning, had toldme; C—p—1 and B—r H—rie would be uponme, and pursue me before the Commissary ; everybody would look upon me as brain-sick or mad -therefore I entreat you do not insist upon send¬ing me so ridiculous an errand. The reasonable¬ness of my demands I leave to your own consider¬ation, as you did your former to mine. But drop^-ping the matter till out next interview, give meleave to enter upon some more diverting subject:I do not know, Cool, but the information youhave given, may do as much service to mankind,as the redress of all these grievances would a-mount to.