The (Deppy Humoaps, KqXs>(lXdX Wise Sayings, andCuPious fldventqpes of KeX^(jtORGt Buchnmh,KNOWN ASfEhc “icing’s !FooL,,ADVENTURESorGeorge Buchanan.— -Mr. George Buchanan was a Scotsman born, andthough of mean parentage, made great progress inlearning. As for his understanding and ready wit, heexcelled all men then alive in the age, that everproposed questions to him. He was servant or teacherto King James the VI., and one of his privatecounsellors; but publicly acted as his fool.It happened one day that a young airy noblemanwent into the King’s garden to pull a flower for ayoung lady he fancied; George followed at a distance,so when the young man found a flower he fancied, hewould not pull it himself, but to find it again withoutfurther search, he covered it with his hat, and wentaway for his sweetheart No sooner was he gone, butup goes George, lifts his hat; and pulls the flower, theneases himself on the spot, covers it with the hat again,and away he goes. Soon after, the young gentlemanreturned, leading his sweetheart to pull the flowerbelow the hat; but as soon as he lifted the hat, andsaw what was below it, he looked like a fool; and thelady flying into a passion, sets off, and would nevercountenance him any more. The young gentlemanAbeing sadly vexed at this affront given by George, senthim a challenge to fight him, appointing day and placewhere to meet Being to fight on horseback, George;gets an old stiff horse, and for harnessing, covers himabout with blown bladders, with small stones ineach, without either sword or spear; and away tothe field he goes, where the duel was appointed. So'when George saw his enemy coming against him, all inglittering armour, armed with sword and spear, hemade up to him with all the speed his horse couldcarry him; when the small stones in the bladders madesuch a rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not stand the battle, but ran away, and threwhis master to the ground; which caused alt the spec¬tators to laugh, and say the gentleman was more foolthan George. The gentleman being still more enragedat this second affront, he would fight with George ohfoot; but his friends persuaded him that it would beno honour for him to fight and kill the king’s fool;and far less to be killed by the fool. So they wereadvised both to agree. But the gentleman would tranother exploit with George, for to have it said he wasstill the cleverest man, viz:—To hold him a jumping-about publicly, the next day thereafter. With all myheart, says George, and we will end in about wheie webegan, they not knowing his meaning in this. Tinplace and hour being set, where they were to meetnext morning, George in the night time caused a deefpit to be made, and^the earth of it carried away, therfilled it up with dung from a p ■, and covered iiover with a green turf, that it might no be knowrfrom the other ground. So, according to promisethey both met in the morning against the appo.ntectime. Now, George being the oldest man, and Mthem counted the greatest fool, the young spwispermitted him to jump firSt, which he according toorder did, and jumped within a foot of the placewhere the ground was falsified. The young man seeingthis, made his performance with great airs, and all hismight, so that he jumped a foot over George, but upto the oxters in clean dung! whereat the wholemultitude of spectators cried out huzzas and laughter.Now, says George, I told you we would end in andabout where we began, and that is in clean dirt.On a time after this, the king and his court weregoing into the country, and they would have Georgeto ride before them in the fool’s dress: whereunto heseemed unwilling, but it was the king’s pleasure. SoGeorge was mounted upon an old horse, with a pairof old riven boots, the heels hanging down, and apalmer coat, patched over with pictures of divers kinds.George rode before them in this posture, which causedgreat laughter and diversion, until they came to aninn, where they alighted to dine, and in the time theywere at dinner, George went into the stables, and witha knife cut all their horse’s chafts, not sore, but so asthey might bleed. Now, as soon as dinner was over,and they mounted on their horses again, Georgeriding before them as usual, in his palmer coat and oldboots, they began to make their game of him. ThenGeorge turning about suddenly, and clapping his handswith loud laughter, the king asked him what made himI laugh so. Laugh, says George, how can I but laugh,when horses cannot hold their peace ? Oh! mysovereign, says he, don’t you see how your horses haverent their chafts laughing at my old boots. Thenevery man looking at his horse’s mouth, they were allin a rage against George. The king causing George todismount directly, and charged him never to let himsee his face on English ground. Now, Georgeknowing that nothing could reconcile die king at thistime, he came away to Scotland, and caused them tomake a pair of great boots, and put a quantity of Scottishearth in each of them, and away he goes for London, tosee the king once more. He hearing the king and hiscourt were to pass through a town, George placeshimself up in an old window, and sets up his bare a—,to the king and the court as they passed. The kingbeing greatly amazed to see such an unusual honourdone to him was curious to know the performer; sohe called unto him, desiring him to come down; andfinding it to be George—Sir, says the king, did not Icharge you never to let me see your face again ? True,my sovereign, says George, for which cause I let yousee my a—. But says the king, you were never tocome on English ground again. Neither I did, says;George, pulling off his boots before the king, behold,my sovereign, it is all Scots earth I stand upon. Theking and his court being greatly diverted with hismerry joke, George was admitted again to the king’sfavour.After this there arose a debate betwixt the king andthe queen about votes in the parliament, as the king,had two votes, the queen would have one, and wouldneeds be a parliamenter, or no peace withoutpreferment. This matter was committed to George bythe king; so it was agreed among the parliamenters,?that the queen should be admitted into the parliamentfor a day. Accordingly she came, and was received,with all the honour and congratulation that was dueand becoming her high station ; but before anymatter of consequence was brought to the board,George seated himself hard by the queen’s seat—allbeing silent, he rose up very quickly, lifted one of hislegs, let a loud f 1, which set the whole house a7/aughing, whereat the queen was greatly offended, andiaid, go, take the rogue and hang him, to which Georgeanswered, a fine parliamenter, indeed, to hang a manfor a sinless infirmity, and that’s a f 1. The[jueen being enraged at the affront put on her firstappearance in parliament, went off in a passion, andnever would countenance them more. But yet, to berevenged on George, she would never give the kingrest till he delivered George into her hands, that hemight be punished at her pleasure, which the kingaccordingly commanded to be done, knowing thatGeorge would rescue himself by some intrigue or other.No soooer was he delivered into her hands, but sheand her maids of honour pronounced his doom, whichwas as follows:—As he had affronted the queen amongso great an equipage, who ought to be honoured inchief above all women in the nation, that he should bestoned to death by the hands of the women. Nowthe time being come that he had to die, according totheir appointment, he was taken into a park, where agreat number of women were waiting for him, withtheir aprons full of stones, to fall upon him, and puthim to death, according to the queen’s appointment.George’s Speech to his Executioners.Here’s a female band with bags of stones,To kill a man for rumple groans,I’m clear of rapine, blood and thefts.Could I convert my f s to rifts ?Since I, the first for f s to die,Close up the place from whence they fly,To commit my crime, I think ye’ll scarceIf once you do cork up your a—.And now since women stones do carry,Men need not in the world longer tarry,Judge if such women be chaste complete,With forty stones between their f ;But since ’tis so ye will come on,The greatest w throw the first stone,8When he had ended with these words, “The greateslw throw the first stone,” every one put it tcanother to cast the first stone, but knowing they wouldattain the character of a w for so doing, they afrefused till the dying hour was past, and then he tooka protest against them, and by that means he gainedhis life. After this he was admitted into the queen’;favour and presence, and attended the court asformerly.About this time, the French king, in order to pick aquarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letter to theking, desiring it to be read before the parliament, andthe writing was as follows: “Will I come? Will 1come ? Will I come ? ” This letter being readbefore the king and his courtiers, they all concludedthat the French king designed to invade England:therefore they ordered an answer to be written, upbraid¬ing him with the breach of peace, and putting him inmind of the last treaty. The answer being read beforethe king and his nobles, they all agreed that it shoulcbe sent off. But George, smiling, and shaking hishead, cried out—Many men, many minds,Who knows what he designs ?Then they asked George what the French king meantby such a letter, to which he answered, I suppose hewants an invitation to come over and dine with you^and then return in a friendly manner; but you aregoing to charge him with a breach of peace before hdhas given any signal of offence or war; his lettedis indeed dark and mystical, but send him an answeraccording to his question. Now, George beingordered to write the anwser, it was as follows: “Andye come—And ye come—And ye come.” This beingsent to the French king, he admired it beyond express-9ion, saying, it was an answer more valiant and daringthan he expected. So the enmity he intended, wasextinguished, and turned into love.It happened once that a malignant party in Scotlandsent up a great spokesman to the king and parliament,for the reducing of the church; George hearing of hiscoming, went away and met him on the bridge, andthe salutation that he gave him was the cutting off hishead, and throwing it over the bridge. He then ranto the king with all his might, and fell down before him,pleading most heartly for a pardon, or without it hewas a dead man. The king most seriously asked himwhat he had done now? To which he answered, hehad only thrown the Scots Bishop’s hat over thebridge, which made the king to laugh, to hear him askpardon for such a small fault; but he had no soonergot the pardon sealed by the king’s hand, than he said,indeed my sovereign, 1 threw his hat over the bridge,but his head was in it. O Geordie, Geordie, says theking, thou wilt never give over till thou be hanged.A nobleman in England agreed with the king howto put a trick upon George, to try his manly courage,in sending him to a certain place for a bag of money.On his way home through St. James’ park, they causeda sturdy fellow to go and set upon him by the way, andtake the money from him. The fellow being armedwith sw-ord and pistol, came up quickly and attackedGeorge with these words, “ You, sir, deliver whatmoney you have, or you are a dead man.” To whichGeorge answered, “ Sir, l have some indeed, but ’tisnot my own, and therefore do not like to part with it;nevertheless, since being determined as you are, toexchange blows for it, pray do me the favour to fireyour pistol through the flap of my cloak, that theowners may see that I have been in great danger of10my life before I parted with it, which he according!'did. No sooner had he fired the pistol, than Georgywhipt out his hanger from below his cloak and will :one stroke cut off his right hand wherein he held hisjrsword, so that both his sword and the hand fell to th|lground; but George lifted his hand and carried it tffithe king. No sooner did he come before them, bui'they asked him, saying, w'ell, George, did you see anjhbody to trouble you by the way ? None, said he, bu1one fellow, who was going to take the money from me^but I made him give me his hand he would not do thej:like again. You did? says the fellow’s master. Yesj;:I did, says George; let work bear witness, throwing;down the fellow’s hand on the table before them all. 1Now, this last exploit of George’s caused many oythe English to hate him; and, among the rest, a younainobleman fell a joking of George, saying he would bej:as famous a champion for Scotland, as Sir WilliatrinWallace was. Ay, ay, says George, Wallace was abrave man in his time. True, indeed, says the younginobleman, but when he came to London, we did him alfimanner of justice, and for honour of the Scots, we havehis effigy in the s to this very day. And do you;know the reason of that, says George ? No, I don’t|says he. Well, I’ll tell you says George.—He was aterror to Englishmen when he wras alive, that the sightirof his picture yet makes them p themselves. TheEnglish took his answer as a great affront, and forth-rwith caused Wallace’s picture to be taken out of alltheir s .A young English girl falling in love with a Scotsman,;she petitioned him several times for to marry herywhich he refused. So, to be revenged on him, shewent to a Justice and swore a rape against him, whichiis death by the law. George hearing of this, went tonthe prison where the young man w'as, and instructed)fIIhim how to behare before the judge. So, in the timeof the trial, George came in while the judge was cryingto the man, but never a word he could get him toanswer, to tell whether he was guilty or not Afterthe Justice had given him over for deaf and dumb,others fell a shouting in his ears, but never a wordhe would speak. Then the judge, perceiving George,called him, saying, George, do you know what is thematter with this man ? Yes, I do, says George.What is it ? says the judge. Why, says George, thewoman made such a noise and crying when he wasravishing her, it has put the poor man quite deaf, I■assure you. Is it so? says the judge. No, no, saysthe woman, my Lord Justice, you may believe me, Ilay as mute as a lamb, and never spoke a word all thetime. Very well confessed, said the judge, and you; have sworn a rape upon him. Take the w toprison, and let the poor man go about his business,and so it ended.George happened one time to be in company with abishop, and so they fell to dispute anent education,and he blanked the bishop remarkably, and the bishophimself owned he was worsted. Then one of thecompany addressed himself to him in these words :i thou Scot, said he, should not have left thy country.For what ? says he; because thou hast carried all thef wisdom that is in it thither with thee. No, no, sayshe, the shepherds in Scotland will dispute with anybishop in London, and exceed them very far ineducation. The bishops then took this as an affront,and several noblemen affirmed it to be as the Scothad said; bets were laid on each side, and three ofi the bishops were chosen, and sent away to Scotlandto dispute it with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others, who were to bear witness of what they:u11should hear pass between them. Now, George knoving which way they went, immediately took anotheroad and was in Scotland before them. He themade an acquaintance with a shepherd on the borde:whose pasture lay on the wayside where the bishopwere to pass ; and there he mounted himself in jshepherd’s dress ; and when he saw the bishopappear, he conveyed his flock to the roadside, and fesa chanting at a Latin ballad. When the bishopcame up to George, one of them asked him i'French, what o’clock it was? To which he answerein Hebrew, it is directly about the time of the daywas yesterday at this time. Another asked him iGreek, what countryman he was? To which hanswered in Flemish, if you knew that, you would has wise as myself. A third asked him in Dutcl;where was you educated ? To which he answered LEarse, herding my sheep between this and LochabelThis they desired him to explain into English, whiciihe immediately did. Now, said the one to the othelwe need not proceed any farther. What, says Georg®are you butchers ? I’ll sell you a few sheep. To thijithey made no answer, but went away shamefully, aniisaid, they believed the Scots had been through all tl^nations in the world for their education, or the devthad taught them. Now, when George had ended this'dispute with the bishops, he stripped off his shej i|herd’s dress, and up through England he goes wit :all the haste imaginable, so that he arrived at ttyplace from whence they set out three days before tli •judges, and went every day asking if they were comnso that he might not be suspected. As soon as the <arrived, all that were concerned in the dispute, an,many more, came crowding in to hear what news frot;the Scottish shepherds, and to know what was doneNo sooner had the three gentlemen declared whathad passed between the bishops and the shepherdswhom they found on the Scots border, when the oldbishop made answer, and think you, said he that ashepherd could answer these questions ? It has beennone else but the devil ; for the Scots ministersthemselves could not do it; they are but ignorant ofof such matters, a parcel of beardless boys. ThenGeorge thought it was time to take speech in hand.Well, my lord bishop, says George, you call them aparcel of ignorant beardless boys. You have a greatlong beard yourself, my lord bishop, and if grace weremeasured by beards, you bishops and the goatswould have it all, and that will be quite averse toScripture. W7hat, says the bishop, are you a Scot?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, says the; bishop, and what is the difference between a Scot anda sot? Nothing at present, says George, but the! breadth of the table, there being a table betwixt thebishop and George. So the bishop went off in a highpassion, while the whole multitude were like to split: their jaws with laughter.t About this time there was an act of parliament forthe benefit of murderers, so that any person, who com-:mitted murder, if they forfeited five hundred merks,which went under the name of kinboot, because, somuch of this went to the murdered person’s nearestrelations, as the price of blood, the murderer got aremit. Now, George knowing this to be contrary toMoses’ laws, was very much grieved to see so manypardons sealed by the king’s hand for murder, almostone every week ; it being so usual for the king to sub¬scribe them, that he would not read them, nor enquire: what they were; for which cause, George writes a writto the crown, and sent it to the king to be subscribed,*4which he actually did, and never looked what h was,returned it to George. No sooner had he received it,,but he goes to the king and told him it was not timefor him to be sitting there, whereat the king, greatlyamazed, started up; then George in great haste, setshimself down in the king’s chair, forthwith declaringhimself king, saying, you who was king must be myfool, for I am now the wisest man. The king at thiswas greatly offended, until George showed him his seaand superscription. But from that day forth, the kingknew what he subscribed.The next pardon that came to be sealed by the king,was a gentlemen who had killed two men before, andhad got pardons for them by money. This being thethird, the king was very silent in looking over thepetition; George standing by asked the king what hewas going to seal now. To which he answered, it i^a remit for a man who has killed three men at sundrytimes, I gave him two remits before. Oh, says George,he has killed but one man. And who killed the otheitwo, says the king. You did, says George, for if yothad given him justice when he had killed the firsthe would have killed no more. When the king hearcthese words, he threw down the pen, and declarerthat such an act to save a murderer, should be nulever after by him.One day, George having no money, he goes awa|and gets a pick and a spade, and then falls a digging]at a corner of the king’s palace, which the king perceiving from his window, calls what he was wantinjthere ? Are you going to undermine my house, ancmake it fall ? No, my sovereign, says, George, but iis verily reported that there is plenty of money abouthis house, and where can it be? says George—.cannot find it, for it is not within the house to do m»53ervice, then surely it must be below it. O George!;ays the king, that is a crave after the new fashion,vhat money you want I’ll order for you. Then, myovereign, says George, I’ll dig no more.One time George being in the country, he came ton inn, where he alighted to refresh himself and historse. The inn-keeper charged him double price for. verything he called for. George never grumbled atlis, but gave him all demands, and away he goes on hisgurney. At the inn where he quartered the followingight he was used after the same manner, if not worse,laving a little farther to go, he returned the next day,nd came that night to the inn where he refreshed theay before. So, when he alighted, the boy asked him,rhat he would give his horse ? What you will, said he.A hen he had gone to his room, the waiter enquired’hat he would have to drink? What you will, saide The master of the inn came into his room before.upper, and enquired what he would have for supper?Vhat you will, landlord, say, he. After supper, and aearty bowl to put all over, he went to bed. On the. lorrow he rose very early, and called for the boy totake ready his horse in all haste, for he was designeda mount and go directly. Soon after he went intoie stable where the boy was, calling for his horse,'hen he mounted with all the speed he could, and. aye the boy a piece of money, saying, here my boy,us is for taking care of my horse; I have paid for all■ have ordered in the house, and off he goes. About. lid-day he alighted again at an inn to refresh himself»nd his horse, and there he chanced to be in companyl ith his other landlord, where he was the night before,jnd charged him with double reckoning: so heiddressed himself to him in the following manner—ir, says he, I do believe I was in your house yester-i6night. O yes! Sir, says he, 1 mind of you pretty welland where were you last night ? Last night, sayGeorge, I was in one of the finest inns, and the civile^landlord 1 ever had in my life; they brought all thingthat I stood in need of unto me, without calling fdthem; and when I came off this morning, they charge!me nothing, and I paid nothing but sixpence to the boifor dressing my horse. Blood and wounds! said thold fellow, then I’ll go there this night. Ay, sayGeorge, do ; and mind this, when they ask you whqyou will have for yourself and your horse, answdnothing but “What you will, Sir.” George smilinwithin himself, to think how he had got the oqextortioner to take amends of the other. So this inikeeper set off on his journey, and rode so late thnight that he might reach the cheap inn, that most ithe people were gone to bed before he arrived. ^soon as he dismounted from his horse, the b<enquired at him : what shall I give your horse, masteTo which he answered, “What you will,” boy. T1boy hearing this, runs away (leaving him and his horito stand at the door), up stairs to his master’s rooncrying, master, master, “What you will” is come agailO the rogue! cries he, where is he? I’ll cane him—IJwhat you will him by-and-by. Then to him he ru«with his cane, licks and kicks him until he was scanable to mount his horse, and would give him rentertainment there, which caused him to ride tlwhole of a cold winter’s night, after he had got llbones all beat and bruised. So the one pursued tilother as a murderer; and his defence was, that he w.jja cheat and a scorner of his house, until the truth wjjfound out.About this time, the French King sent and demandeljfrom the King of England, three men of differeltI?qualities. The first was to be a mighty strong man ;the second a very wise man ; and the third a very[great fool; so that he might have none in all Franceto match them. So, accordingly, there were two menchosen; the one a strong man, and the other a verywise man, but George was to act as the fool; never-:heless, he was the teacher of the other two. On:heir way to France, George asked the strong man,what will you answer the French king when he asks ifyou be a strong man. Why, says he, I’ll say I am.Then, says George, he’ll possibly get a stronger man;han you, who will kill you, and affront your country.What shall I say then, said the strong man? Why,says George, tell him you are strong enough untried.Then said he to the wise man, and what will you sayto the king, when he asks if you are a wise man? Why[’ll tell him I am, and answer him all the questions Iknow. Very well, says George, but what if he askswhat you do not know, then you’ll affront your country,ind be looked upon as a greater fool than me. Well,ind what shall I answer then ? said the wise man.Why, says George, tell him he is only a wise man that:an take care of himself; and I shall come in afterpou, and take care of you altogether. As soon as- Fey arrived at the king of France’s palace, the kingsent for them to try them. The strong man was firstcalled for, and in he went: then the king asked himIf he was a strong man ? to which he answered, OKing ! I am strong enough untried. Very well, said;he king. After him the wise man was called; and:he king asked him if he was a wise man ? to whichre answered, he is only a wise man who can take care)f himself. Very well, says the king. On which' jeorge pushed up the door, and in he went, with loudaughter, and p  directly in his Majesty’s face,i8which blinded both his eyes, and put the whole couin amaze. Now, now, said his Majesty, it is truenough what the wise man says, for if I had takecare of myself, I need not have been p upon hthe English fool. O, ho, says George, fools alwaystrive to make fools of others, but wise men makfools of themselves. By this his Majesty seemeto think he was made the greatest fool, and chargethem to go home, for he wanted no more of Englancstrength, wisdom, and folly.One night a Highland drover chanced to have jdrinking bout with an English captain of a ship, anat last they came to be very hearty over their cups, sthat they called in their servants to have a share <their liquor. The drover’s servant looked like a wilman, going without breeches, stockings, or shoes, niso much as bonnet on his head, with a long peelerung in his hand. The captain asked the drover hdlong it was since he catched him? He answered, itabout two years since I hauled him out of the sea wi;a net, and afterwards ran into the mountains, where,catched him with a pack of hounds. The captabelieved it was so; but, says he, I have a servant tjbest swimmer in the world. O, but, says the drovemy servant will swim him to death. No, he will ncsays the captain, I’ll lay one hundred crowns on jThen, says the drover, I’ll lay it one to one, and stakedirectly; the day being appointed when the trial wito be made. Now, the drover, when he camehimself, thinking on what a bargain he had made, dijnot know what to do, knowing very well that Hiservant could swim none. He hearing of Georjilbeing in town, who was always a good friend to Scotdimen, he went unto him and told him the whole stooland that he would be entirely broke, and durst nevji*9•stum home to his own country, for he was sure to>se it. Then George called the drover and his manside, and instructed them how to behave, so that theyhould be safe and gain too. So accordingly they mett the place appointed. The captain’s man striptirectly and threw himself into the sea, taking a turnntil the Highlandman was ready, for the drover tookame time to put his servant in order. After he wastripped, his master took his plaid, and rolled a kebbuckf cheese, a big loaf, and a bottle of gin in it, andtis he bound on his shoulders, giving him directions3 tell his wife and children that he was well, and toe sure he returned with an answer against that daye’nnight. As he went into the sea, he looked back tois master, and called out to him for his claymore,md what waits he for now? says the captain’s servantle wants his sword, says his master. His sword, says•te fellow; what has he to do with a sword ? Why,ays his master, if he meets a whale or a monstrouseast, it is to defend his life. I know he will have toght his way through the North seas, ere he gets toa .ochaber. Then cried the captain’s servant, I’ll swimone with him, if he takes his sword. Ay, but says• is master, you shall, or lose the wager; take younother sword with you. No, says the fellow, I neverid swim with a sword, nor any man else, that ever Iaw or heard of; I know not but that wild man will; ill me in deeper water. I would not for the whole/odd venture myself with him and a sword. Theaptain seeing his servant afraid to venture, or if heiid, he would never see him again alive, therefore hedesired an agreement with the drover, who at firsteemed unwilling; but the captain putting it in hisfill, the drover quit him for half the sum. This he' ame through George’s advice.20George was one day met by three bishops, who p;him the following compliments: Says the first, goomorrow, Father Abraham; says the second, gotmorrow, Father Isaac; says the third, good-momFather Jacob. To which he replied, I am neitFather Abraham, Father Isaac, nor Father Jacob ; lI am Saul, the son of Kish, sent out to seek ifather’s asses, and, lo! I have found three of theWhich answer fully convinced the bishops that tlhad mistaken their man.A poor Scotchman dined one day at a public hoiin London upon eggs, and not having money to pgot credit till he should return. The man being lucin trade, acquired vast riches; and after some yehappening to pass that way, calls at the house whhe was owing the dinner of eggs. Having calledthe innkeeper, he asked him what he had to pay Jthe dinner of eggs he got from him such a time. 7tlandlord seeing him now rich, gave him a billseveral pounds, telling him as his reason for so :travagant a charge, that these eggs, had they bethatched, would have been chickens ; and these, lay,more eggs, would have been more chickens, and so |multiplying the eggs and their product till such tifas their value amounted to the sum charged. 1man refusing to comply with this demand, was char^before a judge. He then made his case knownGeorge, his countryman, who promised to appeailothe hour of cause, which he accordingly did, all i isweat, with a great basket of boiled pease, whliappearance surprised the judge, who asked what hmeant by these boiled pease. Says George, I 11going to sow them. When will they grow? said Jbjudge. They will grow, said George, when 'socialeggs grow chickens, which answered convinced jiaiidge of the extravagance of the inn-keeper’s demand,nd the Scotsman was acquitted for twopence half-enny.- George, one day easing himself at the corner of aedge, was espied by an English squire who began to• rock him, asking him why he did not keckle like theens ? But George, whose wit was always ready, toldim he was afraid to keckle, lest he would come and. natch up the egg, which rebuff made the squire walkif as mute as a fish.George was professor of the College of St. Andrews,nd shpt out one day in his gown and slippers, and.rent on his travels through Italy, and several otheroreign countries, and after seven years returned with.he same dress he went off in; and entering the college,ook possession of his seat there; but the professor inas room quarrelled with him for so doing. Ay, saysleorge, it is a very odd thing that a man cannot takep walk out in his slippers, but the other will take up hiseat, and so set the other professor about his business.Two drunken fellows once fella-beating one another>n the streets of London, which caused a great crowd)f people to throng together to see what it was. Aailor being at work up in a garret, about three or fouritories high, and he hearing the noise in the street,ooking over the window, but could not see them ; he)egan to stretch himself, making a long neck, until heell down out of the window, and alighted on an oldnan who was walking on the street; the poor tailorAas more afraid than hurt, but the man he fell on dieddirectly. His son caused the tailor to be apprehended,ind tried for the murder of his father; the jury couldnot bring it in wilful murder, neither could they-altogether free the tailor; the jury gave it over to thejudges, and the judges to the king. The king asked22George’s advice in this hard matter. Why, aGeorge, I will give you my opinion in a minute; ymust cause the tailor to stand in the street where 1old gentleman was when he was killed by the tailand then let the old gentleman’s son, the tailcadversary, get up to the window from whence 11tailor fell, and jump down, and so kill the tailor asdid his father. The tailor’s adversary hearing tsentence past, he would not venture to jump outthe window, and so the tailor got clear off.George went into the mint one day when they w«melting gold. One of them asked George, if he worhave his hat full of gold? George readily accord*but it burned the bottom out of his hat, as they knit would, and for the bout foiled George. HowevGeorge to be up with them, bought a fine large hand caused a plate of copper to be put betwixt the 1and the lining; and returning next day they jestin;asked him, if he would have another hatful of golHe said he would. They gave it red hot, and Geosnow laughed at them in his turn; telling them, t)his new hat was a good one, and stood fire better ththe old one, and so carried it off honestly; and beiafterwards prosecuted for to return it, he excushimself, telling the judge that he took nothing 1what was given him, and therefore he was honouraacquited, and the others heartily laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, and be.weary of the great fatigue and folly of the cqfashions, a short time before his death, he had a grdesire to visit his native country, and the place ofnativity. Therefore he petitioned the king ipermission to do so, which was granted. So he Jout for Scotland, and went to the parish of Buchanliin Dumbartonshire, where he visited all his relatip*3i friends. But George staying longer from the1 nrt than the time allowed, the king sent him severalUsages to return, to which he returned no answer," last the king sent him a letter, threatening that ifdid not appear before him in the space of twentyys he would send his Lyon Heralds for him; toj ich George returned the following answer:—My honoured liege and sovereign king,Of your boasting great I dread nothing;On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions andrections concerning the government of his kingdomd the well-being of his soul; which drew tears frome king’s eyes when he read it.a*'-.