THE NEWrj:BIBEE.PAISLEY:PUBLISHED BY CALDWELL AS'D SON.I2The Creation of Light.In Ihe beginning God created the heavensand the earth. And the earth was withoutform, and void ; and darkness was upon riteface of the deep : and the Spirit of Godmoved upon the face of the waters. And Godsaid, Let there be light: and there was light.2 The Division of the Waters.Gen. 1.6,7.And God said Let there be a firmament inthe midst of the waters, and let it divide thewaters from the waters. And God made thefirmament, and divided the waters which wereunder the firmament from the waters whichwere above the firmament • ami it was so.I3 Woman formed.Gen. ii. 22, 23, 25.And the rib which the Lord God had takenfrom man, made he a woman, and broughther unto the man. And Adam said, This isnow bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh ;she shall be called woman, because she wastaken out of man. And they were both naked,the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.4 Adam naming the crealuret.Gen. ii. 19, 20.And out of the ground the Lord formedevery beast of the field, and every fowl of theair, and brought them unto Adam, to see whathe would call them: and whatsoever Adamcalled every living creature, that was the namethereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle,and to the fowl of the air, and to every beastof the field.fi The serpent deceiveth Eve.Gen. iii. 4, 6.And the serpent said unto the woman, Yeshall not surely die. And when the womansaw that the tree was good for food, and thatit was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to bedesired to make one wise, she took of the fruitthereof and did eat; and gave also unto berhusband with her, and he did eat.t> Adam and Eve driven from the garden.Gen. iii. 24, 25.Therefore the Lord God sent him forthfrom the garden of Eden, to till the groundfrom whence he was taken. So he drove outthe man: and he placed at the east of thegarden of Eden cherubims and a flamingsword which turned every way, to keep theway of tire tree of life,37 JVecrft entering the ark.Gen. vii. 7—10.And Noah went in, and his sons, and hissons’ wives with him, into the ark, because ofthe waters of the flood. Of clean beasts, andof beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, andof every thing that crecpeth upon the earth.There went in two and two unto Noah intothe ark, the male and the female, as God hadcommanded Noah.8 Babel built.Gen. zi. 4, 8.And they said. Go to, let us build us a city,and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven ;and let us make us a name, lest we be scat,tered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.So the Lord scattered them abroad from thenceupon the face of all the earth : aad they left■off to bnild the city.c;9 Lnl and hi', imghlcri leave Sodom.Gen. xix. 15, 30.And wlien the irtorning aiose, the angelhastened Lot, saying, Ariie, take thy wife andthy two daughters, which are here : lest thouI e (.rmsumed in the iniquity of the.city. AndLot went up out of Zonr, and dwelt in themountain, and his two daughters with him ;for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dweltin a cave, be and his two daughters.■10 Abraham offereth Isaac.Gen, xxii. 10—12.And Abraham stretched forth his hand, andtook the knife to slay his son. And the angelof the Lord called unto Abraham out of heav¬en, afrd said, Abraham, Abraham. And hesaid, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thinehand upon the lad, neither do thou any thingunto him : for now I know that thou fearestGod, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son,thine only son, from me.11 Joseph is cast into the pit.Gen. xxxvii. 23, 24.And it came to pass, when Joseph wascome unto Ins brethren, that they strippedJoseph out of his coat, his coat of many co¬lours, that was on him. And they took him,and cast him into a pit: and"the pit was emp¬ty, there was no water in it.12 Jose]>htempted by Potiphar's wife.Gen. xxxix. 7, 10, 12.And it came to pass after these things, thathis master’s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph ;and she said, Lie with me. And it came topass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, thathe hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or tobe with her. Arid she caught him by bisgarment in her hand, and fled, and got himnot.js13 The finding of Moses.Kx0d. ii. 5, 6.And the daughter of Pharoah came therato wash herself at the river; and her maidenswalked along by the river’s side: and when* she saw the ark among the flags, she sent hermaid to fetch it. And when she had openedit, she saw the child: and, behold, the babewept. And she had compassion upon him,and said, This is one of the Hebrew’s children.14 Moses smiteth the rock,Exon. xvii. 5. 6.And the Lord said unto Moses, Go on be.fore the people, and take with thee of theelders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thousmotest the river, take in thy hand, and go.Behold, I will stand before thee there uponthe rock in Horeb; and thou shalt smite therock, and there shall come watei out of it,that the people may drink. And Mosea didto in the sight of the elders of Israel.9i» Moses receiveth the tables.Exod. xxxiv. 1. 4.And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew theetwo tables of stone like unto the first; and 1will write upon these tables the words thatwere in the first tables, which thou brakest.And be hewed two tables of stone like untothe first: and Moses rose up early in themorning, aud went up unto mount Sinai, asthe Lord had commanded him, and took in bishand tAe two tables of stone.* 6 Jericho compassed.Josh. vi. 12. IS.And Joshua rose early in the morning, andthe priests took up the ark of the Lord. Andseven priests, bearing seven trumpets of ram'shorns before the ark of the Lord, went oncontinually, and blew with the trumpets: andthe armed men went before them; and therereward came after the ark of the Lord, thepriests going oh, and blowing with tire trum¬pets.\/0\1017 The sun and moon stand still.Josh. x. 12, 13.Then spake Joshua to the Lord, in the daywhen the Lord delivered up the Amorites be¬fore the children of Israel, and he said in thesight of Israel, Sun. stand thou still upon Gib-een ; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon.And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed,until the people had avenged themselves upontheir enemies.18 Samson s Death.Judges xvi 29,30.And Samson took hold of the two middlepillars upon which the house stood, and onwhich it was borne up, of the one with hisright hand, and of the other with his left.And Samson said, Let me die with the Pn1}-istines, And he bowed himself with all hismight; and the house fell upon the lords, anaupon all the people that were within.e1119 David Hlleth Go'ialh.1 Sam. xvii. 49, 51.And David put his hand in his bag, andtook thence a stone, and slung it, and smotethe Philistine in his forehead, that the stonesunk into his forehead ; and he fell upon hisface to the earth. The.efore David ran, antistood upon the Philistine, and took his sword,and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slewhim, and cut off Ids head therewith.20 slbsalom caught up in the oak.2 Sam. xviii. 9.And Absalom rode upon a mule, and themule went under the thick branebes of a greatoak, and his head caught hold of the oak, andhe was taken up between the heaven and theearth ; and the mule that was under him wentaway.I?21 Solomon's Judgment.1 Kinks iii- 25, 26.And the king said. Divide the living child;in two, and give half to the one, and half to-tlie other. Then spake the woman whosethe living child was unto the king, (for herbowels yearned upon her son,) and she saidvO my lord, give her the living chid, and inno wise slay it ; hut the ether said. Let it beneither mine nor thine, but divide it.S2 Solomon s Temple.1 Kings vi. 2, 3.S' ■And the house which king Solomon builtfor the Lord, the length thereof was threescorecubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits,,and the height thereof thirty cubits. And theporch before the temple of the house, twentyoubits was the length thereof, according to thebreadth of the house ; and ten cubits was tbsbreadth thereof before the house.13f023 Elijah fed by ravens.1 Kings xvii. 3, 4, 6.Get thee lienee, and turn thee eastward, andhide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is be¬fore Jordan, And it shall be, that thou shaltdrink of the brook; and I have commandedthe ravens to feed thee there. And the ravensbrought him bread and flesh in the morning,and bread and flesh in the evening! and hedrank of the brook.24 The Syrians overthrown.1 Kings xx. 20, 31.And they slew everyfman his man: and theSyrians fled, and Israel pursued them ; andBenbadad the king of Syria escaped on a horsewith the horsemen. And the king of Israelwent out, and smote the horses and chariots,and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.25 Elijah is taken up into heaven.2 Kings ii. 11. 12.And it came to pass, as they still went on,and talked, that, behold, there appeared a cha¬riot of lire, and horses of fire, and parted themboth asunder; and Elijah went tip by a whirl¬wind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and hecried, My father, my father! the chariot ofIsrael, and the horsemen thereof.26 Jezebel eaten by dogs.2 Kings ix. 35, 36.And they went to bury Jezebel; but theyfound no more of her than the scull, and thefeet, and the paints of her hands. Whereforethey came again, and told him ; and he said,This is the word of the Lord, which he spakeby his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Inthe portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the fleshof Jezebel.§7 Belshazzar's Feast.Dan. v. 3—5.The king and his princes, his wives and Idsconcubines, drank wine, and praised the godsof gold, and of silver, of brass; of iron, ofwood, and of stone. In the same hour cameforth fingers uf a man’s hand, and wrote overagainst the candlestick upon the plaster of thewall of the king’s palace ; and the king sawthe part of tile hand that wrote.28 Daniel cast into the den of lions.Dan. vi. 21, 22, 23.Then said Daniel unto the king, O king,live for ever. My God hath sent his angel,and hath shut the lion’s mouth, that they harenot hurt me : forasmuch as before him inn<>-cency was found in me ; and also before thee,O king, have I done no hurt. Then was theking exceeding glad for him, and commandedthat they should take Daniel up out of the den.39 Jonah it swallowed by a Jlsh.Jonah i. 17. ii. 10.Now the Lord had prepared a great fish toswallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in thebelly of the fish three days and three nights.And the Lord spake unto the fish, and it vo¬mited out Jonah upon the dry land.SO The Salutation.Mark i. SO. 31, 32.And the angel said unto her, Fear not,Mary, for thou hast found favour with God.And. behold, thou shall conceive in thywomb, and bring forth a son, and shall callbis name Jesus. He shall be great, and shallbe called the Son of the Highest; and theLord God shall give unto him the throne ofhis father David.IT/o31 Wise men enquire after Christ.Matt. ii. 11, 12.And when they were come into the house,they saw the young child with Mary his mother,and fell down and worshipped him; and whenthey bad opened their treasures, they presentedunto him gifts; pold, fiaiiLiucciisc, and myrrhAnd being warned of God in a dream that theyshould not return to Herod, they departedinto their own country another way.38 The baptism of Jesus.Luki iii. 21, 22.Now, when all the people were baptized. **came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized,and praying, the heaven was opened. Andthe Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape,like a dove, upon him; and a voice came fromheaven which said, Thou art my beloved Son ;in thee 1 am well pleased.ISS3 John Baptist beheaded.Matt. xiv. 6, 7, 8.But when Herod's birth-day was kept, the■’ouchler of Herodias danced before them, andpleased Herod. \YIlereupim lie prurnised withan oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.And she, being before instructedof her mother,said, Give me here John Baptist’s head in acharger.34 The good Samaritan.Luke x. 33, 34.A certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, camewhere he was: and when he saw him, he hadcompassion on him, And ivent to him, andhound op his wounds, pouring in oil and wine,and set him on his own beast, and broughthim to an inn, and took dare of him./o1935 Christ's sermon on the mount.Matt. v. 1,5!, 3, 4.And seeing the multitudes, be went up intoa mountain, and when he was set, his disciplescame unto him : And he opened his mouth,and taught them, saying.Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs Isthe kingdom ol heaven.Blessed are they that mourn : for they shallbe comforted, &c. lie.Mark iv. 37, 38, 39.And there arose a great storm of wind, andthe waves he^t into the ship, so that it wasnow full. And he was in the hinder part ofthe ship, asleep on a pillow ; and they awakehim, and say unto him, Master, carest thounot that we perish? And he arose, and re¬buked the wind, and said unto the sea. Peace,be still. And the wind ceased, and there wasa great calm.37 Christ healeth a bloody issue.Luke viii. 49, 50.And when the woman saw that she was notbid, she came trembling, and, falling downbefore him, she declared unto him before allthe people for what cause she had touchedhim, anil how ehe was healed immediately.And he said unto her, Daughter, be of goodcomfort: thy faith hath made thee whole ; goin peace.38 The prodigal son.. Luke xt. 21, 22, 23.And the son said unto him, Father, I haresinned against Heaven, and in thy sight, andam no more worthy to be called thy son. Butthe father said to his servants, Bring forth thebest robe, and put it on him ; and put a ringon his hand, and shoes on his feet. Andbring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; andlet us eat, and be merry.io2139 The parable of Lazarus.Luke xvi. 30, 21, 22.And there was a certain beggar named L>-xarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores.And desiring to be fed with the crumbs whichfell from the rich man’s table : moreover, theogs came and licked his sores. And it cameto pass, that the beggar died, and was carriedby the angels into Abraham’s bosom.40 The last supper.M iTT. xxvi. 26, 27, 28.And as they were eating, Jesus took bread,and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to thedisciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body.And he teok the cup, and gave thanks, andgave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it:For this is my blood of the New Testament,which is shed for many, for the remission of•ins.22iI41 Jesus is accused before Pilate.Luke xxiii. 1, 2, 3.And the whole multitude of them arose,and led him unto Pilate. And they began toaccuse him, saying, We found this fellowperverting the nation, and forbidding to givetribute to C.vsar, saying that he himself isChrist a King. And Pilate asked him, say¬ing, Ai t thou the King of the Jews ? And heanswered him and said, Thou sayest it.The Crucifixion.42 Mark xv. 24, 25, 26, 27‘And when they had crucified him, they part¬ed his garments, casting lots upon them, whatevery man should take. And it was the thirdhour, and they crucified him. And tha su¬perscription of his accusation was writtenover, The King of the Jews. And with himthey ctucify two thieves ; the one on his rightband, and the other on his left.to2343 The Last Da;/.Matt. tlw. 31, 32, 33.When the Son of Man shall come in hisglory, and all the holy angels o’itli him, thenshall he sit upon the throne of his glory. Amibefore him shall be gathered all nations; andhe shaliseparate them one from another, as ashepherd divideth his sheep from the goats :And he shallput the sheop on his right hand,but the g<vps an the left.44 Christ's entombment.Mark xv. 43, 46.Joseph of Arimathea, an honourable coun¬seller. which also waited for the kingdom ofGod, came, anti went in boldly unto Pilate,and craved the body of Jesus. And he boughtfine linen, and took him down, and wrappedhim in the linen, ant1, laid him in a sepulchrewhich was hewn out of a rock, and rolled astone unto the door of the sepulclne.46 The Ascension.Luke xxiv. 50, 51, 52And he led them out as far as to Bethany;and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.And it came to pass, while he blessed them,he was parted from them, and carried up intoheaven. And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy.4b' The apostles speak divers languages.Acts ii. g, 3, 4.And suddenly there came a sound from hea¬ven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filledall the house where they were sitting. Andthere appeared unto them cloven tongues, likeas of tire, and it sat upon each of them. Andthey were all filled with the Holy Ghost, andbegan to speak with other tongues, as theSpirit gave them utterance.