ARESTHEAVENLYfor aW E A R Y S O U L;O R, T H EPILGRIM at his Journey’s End:BEINGThe Laft LEGACY of a FATHER to hisCHILDREN, when oh his Death-Bed.To which is added,t. The Children’s Duty to God, their Mother andThemfelves.II. A COPY of VERSES, written by theFather, a little before his Death.III. Some GODLY MEDITATIONS.IV. The Father’s laft GIFT to his Children.By the Reverend Mr. JOHN RUNYAN,late Minijler ej the Gofpelt at Bedford.Very pie afar t to read, profitable to praftife, and ofexcellent Ufe to all forts of People, that defire t9live a godly life m this prefent evil Wor Id.GLASGOW.Printed and fold by J. & M. ROBERTSON*MDCCfcXXX?*,( 2 )REST for a Weary SOUL.I. The Efithcr's admonition to his Children before hisDeafhy ’wherein he informs them> Firft, Of theirduty to God : Secondly, 7o their Mother: AndtThirdly, Of what they owe to each other.MY Children I mull now leave you, I am go¬ing to a better place: my glafs is almoftrun, I have fought a good fight, and have finiihedmy courfe, and henceforth there is laid up for mea crown of glory. In my youth I was wild and un¬godly, as mod were; I fpent my time idly, and ne¬ver regarded what I did, fo I could but pleafe andfatisfy my appetite.-——I have, fince my converfioli(thanks he to God) taken heed to my ways, andlived as uprightly as I could: for, if I did any wrong,it was againft my will; I have lived according to therules of the holy feriptures, as much as in me lay:I loved the word of my enemies (but hated theirwicked ways) who cad falfe afperfions .upon me,but I owe no man ill, heartily forgiving all whohave been my enemies, as I hope to be forgiven thro*Chrid Jefus my dear Lord.—My dear children, letme intreat you to be admonidted by my words, andtake my. exhortation as a legacy; I having, you wellknow, very little to leave you.Firfl) Let me put you in mind of your duty toGod.Secondly^ To your mother : And*Thirdly, To one another. But,Reft for a Weary !Soul., 3• | V. y -Of your duty to God. j, - ^‘ Draw nigh to God, and he will draw JffgTi to* you/ James vi. 8.—This very exhortation given.byJames an apoftle of our Lord and Saviour JefusChrift, is enough to induce you, without any o-ther, to draw nigh ta?God and he will draw nighto you ; if you feat Cioa he will defend you, if youare willing to return from your evil ways, he willreceive you; He delires not the death of a linner,fo that if you are not faved, it is your own fault.—And, indeed, the text comprehends a great dealof comfort, it brings falvation to a wretched fin-ner, it fpeaks to all men : fo much by way of ex»hortation.Let me now baflen to the firlt particular, whichwas to lay before you, your duty to God Fear Godand keep his 'commandments, for this is the ’wholeduty of mm, Ecclef vii. 13 There you fee yourduty; fear to offend is your duty, though compre¬hended fo fliort. Be careful to ferve him, fearfulto offend him, diligent to keep his laws, and wil¬ling to obey his commands; abide.all his correc¬tions with patience, murmur at none of his ways,live honeftly, love all men ; lye not, fwear not,pheat not, nor take the Lord’s name in vain : covetnot that which is another man’s; love the Lordwith your whole heart ; fear him, and praife hisname ; mortify your lulls and unruly paflions ; re¬fill the devil, and he will, fly from you ; Suffer anything for your religion ; yea, death itfelf, and in allthings fubmit to the will of God. 1 fliall concludethis head with thefe precepts, <bc.1. Fear to do any thing againll that God whomyou love, and you wi l not love to do any thingagainft that God whom you fear.A 2 2. Lei4 a Weary Soul,2. Let your prayers be as frequent as your wants*jind your thankfgiving as your bleffings.3. In the morning, think what you have to do,for which afk God’s blefling ; and, at night, thinkof what you have done that is finful, for which aikhim forgivenefs.4. Take an exa& account of your life, be not a-fraid to look upon the fcore, but to encreafe it: Todefpair, becaufe a man is finful, is to be worfc, be-caufe he hath been bad.5. Confider the (hortnefs of your life, and cer¬tainty of judgment; the reward for the good, andthe punifhment for the wicked: and fo you willhave but one day to repent of before you die.6 Do injury to no one ; for by injuring others,you teach them to injure you.- 7 Innocence will be the beft guard. He thatdares be wicked, fometimes for his advantage, willalways be fo, if his intereft requires it.And fo much for the firft head: I come now inthe fecond place, to tell you of the duty you oweto your mother.* Honour your father and mother,’ <bc is the fifthcommandment: ‘ A wife fon heareth his father’s‘ inttru£tion,’ Prov. xiii. x. And again, Prov vi.29. ‘ My fon, keep thy father’s commandments,« and forfake not the law of thy mother.’ Here youmay fee that duty to your parents, is a command ofGod. Solomon, the wife(t man that ever was, givesyou this charafter of a wife fon, (that is a dutifulfon,) he hearkens to his father’s inftrudtions, andwillingly obeys them,Confider then my fon, on what I have faid, ho¬nour your mother when I am in my grave ; I giveyou this charge in the fight (ti God, and ChriftJcfus our Lord. •Reft for a Weary Soul. 5'Thirdly and Lajlly, I come to the duty we oweto one another.My children, take warning by the vicious habitsof other men, and you will do well 5 whilft othersdrive one againft another: do you drive to do goodone for another; and whilft others are at varianceand revile each other, do you pray for and comfortone another.To conclude, Mind what I have laid, and lay itup in your hearts, and implore God’s blefiing uponit. I mud leave you, but I hope-wc drall one daymeet face to face in the prefence of the Almighty,vsrheTe pleafures flow, and joys abide for evermore.i ^ » « « * * «II. A COPY of VERSES that he made uponhimfelf, not long before his death.FOrbear, fond man, and weep no more, ’MvainWhen heav’n decrees, ’tis folly to conSprein';This worldly mafs is fubjcft to decay,And death and nature all things mud obey:/The blufhing rofe fmilcs with the morning fun,full then lobks gay, now withers and is gone ;Pardon my fins, Almighty God, I pray!Forgive them all, then take me hence away;Then my provoking foul fhall upwards fly,And leave with joy this world of vanity.III, Some Godly MEDITATIONS.NT O creature under heaven can afford my foulany comfort, only thou, O Lord, the Phyfi-. cian6 Reft for a Weary Soul.cian of fouls j thou bringeft man nigh unto death,and reftorrft him unto life again, thereby fhcwingbis weakntys and thy power: therefore all love andpraife be to thee, O Lord.O God, 1 extol thy name; and tho’ I am a finfu*.creature, I will not ceal'e to give thee thanks tothe utmoll of my (Length : I will declare thy juf-tice and mercy, and whillt I live, I will declare thy Nname.As for man he is but duft, and vanilhes: his life |is hut a 'pan, and full of mifery.O heavenly Father, let me not forget mine ownfL ' : Let me confider what I am, and rememberv r ' ! fhali be: then fhall I forget to leave myfelf,and l.' ng after thee.My fins, O Lord, are before thy face; I can turnno way but they purfue me : I intreat thee to par¬don them Confider my neccffity, moll mightyG;5d, and deliver me for thy Son’s fake.Although my offences are more in number thanthe halfs of my head, yet Lord, (hew mercy, andforgive therm— I know, though my (ins were asfcarlet, yet thou canft make them white as fnpw;therefore, O Lord, to thee be glory for ever more.Truly, Lord, 1 fee no caufe why I Ihould long toabide in this life. If 1 was arrived to fuch perfedlionas the apoftle Paul was, I fliould defire eameftly ashe did, to be with Chrift.O God, I befeech thee, to give me fuch thingsas are for thy glory, and the good of them who lovethee and walk uprightly*O my God, I pray thee, mortify the corruptionsof my heart, cleanfe thou me from fecret faults,and fend thy good Spirit to write thy law upon myheart.Thy ways, O Lord, are the ways of righrecuf-uefs, and all thy commandments are truth and ho-linefs:;Rejl for a Weary Soul. ' 7linefs: as for thy will, it is altogether upright; trut*and holy art thou, O Lord of holts.O God of all truth, my panting foul longs afterthee ; thou art the fountain of all bldTednefs: I anathine, fave thou me from trefpaiTmg againit thee.Oh ! my fins are many, but do not furpafs thepower and glory of thy grace ; and as for my ioi-I quities thou lhalt purge them away : I thank tfete,I therefore, O thou Lord of heaven and earth, forthy forgiving love and mercy in the face of JcfusChrift, my only Lord and Saviour0 my God, arife and deliver me from this traleI of wickednefs, where my temptations have beenmany : Create in me, O God, a clean heart; Lord,lilt thou up the light of thy countenance upon me,that the inmoft recefs of my foul may be enlight¬ened, that I may behold wondrous things out of ithylaw and gofpel, and be made of quick underftand-ing in the fear of the Lord : then (hall I gavethee praife for ever and ever, through Jefus Chriilmy Lord. „1 recommend my foul into thy hands, fof thouhaft redeemed me, 0 God of truth and righteouf-nefs: Be thou my defence againit the fears or?death ; that notwithftanding the fnggeftiens of the1tempter, I may efcape all his fatal fnares, that hemay not have power to do me any evil. Give thyangels charge over me to defend me, and carry mefale through the regions of the air, to Immanuel’sland, and to thy right hand in heaven above, wherethere are pleafurcs for evermore; where we (hallbe made kings and priefts unto God, and go nomore out; where we fnall throw down our crownsbefore thee, in token of our gratitude, crying.Worthy is the Lamb that was flam, (although weare unworthy) to receive all hotiour, power, glory,might.8. Reft for a Weary SouLmight, majefty, dominion, bleding, and thankfgiy*ing in the high&ft, for ever and ever, Amen.IV. Hislaft GIFT to his CHILDREN.MY Children dear, a legacyWith you I now do leave :Pray read it o’er, and you will loonMy purpofes perceive:Fil'd to youi God your duty {how,And live up to his laws:Then comfort you’ll hereafter take,And vindicate his caufe.Next give all honour that is dueUnto your mother dear;Such v- ill be happy, you will findW die they do tarry here :Love to your brethren God commands,That you will always fhew :You then {hall ever live in peace,In joy and honour tco.Pray love your neighbours as yourfelf,Behave to ihem mod juft:In all your thoughts, your words and works,Then you in God may trud:Then he’ll preferve you in your ftepsThat you {hall never fall :He will be always your fure friend,Your God, your guide and all*FINIS.