theTHIUD AND SECOND PART OF THE KE'.VON THEPRIDE OF WOMEN ;on THEVANITY OF THIS WORLD DISPLAY^!).TO WHICH IS ADDEDAn excellent Receipt to all young Men who.want a Wife, how to wale her by her mouth,besides you have an account of the Girls thatwear the high heads and the high crownedcaps, piled on their heads like a bee scan, ora quoil of bay, together with ad their Rig-; giug and Furniture.S T f R L T N G :k:NTFD ey E. JOHNSTONE, BOOK ELLER,1633.NEW PROVERBSOS TUBPRIDE OF WOMEN, &c.CHAP. I.Woman who has haughty looks, is underinfection of the plague, even pride; sheis ignorant of herself, and thinks as much as sheis her own maker, always despising her fellow,creatures, as if she was not of the seed of Adam,2. Her eyes bent always upwards, towatdsthe skies, and in my opinion, such women coruefrom the world of the moon, became they lookbackwards towards their native country.3. And she who is patron full of pride, isempty of virtue; but O bow wise in her owneyes is she; eloquent in speech, expert in lawwithout experience.4. lie that joins with such a woman bindshimself to be a galley slave all the days of hislife; he must fight against wind and waves, towher to the grave’s mouth if she sinks not ; forshe cannot be sold.35. Woe’s me! for meny women are weigh*,ed down with folly, lifted up with vanity, deep¬ly wounded, being so in love with themselves,their hearts pine away with hatred and sorrow,because their neighbours are exalted abovethem.tii. \’jnj » », 113 ’C> i6. 1 his is a sore evil which cleaveth to thedaughters of Eve, handed down from motherto daughter from one generation to another.7. No sooner have they got judgment to de-I cern between the right "hand and the left, butithey are carried away to be taught by 4/adamVanity, the daughter of Lucifer, who bringsI them into the College of Contradiction, which1 stands in the town of Contention.8. Here they are catechised in all the arts ofq buckings, such as painting of the face, and| plaiting of the hair, and fixing these high-crowned caps, and big head-dresses, piled on; their heads, like a bces-cap, or a quoil of hay,and even kilted their petticoats to the rump. ’9. Come all ye dumb brutes, cats dogs, andI,other creatures, and behold a foolish people,walking on earth, as if they were not of theearth, decking their bodies with brats, and theirij bellies with beef, and yet you in rough skins,seem as comely in your kinds, and more obedi-lent to your iV/aker apd master than they,410. Come, come', re lilies of t!ie field and ro- ,f , jscs of ihe garden, and behold how queens, prin¬cesses, and countesses, are counterfeited by poorchpfarts of vanity, going to church with the ribsof unrighteousness round their rumple ; with adisplayed banner of painted hypocrisy in theirlight hand to guard their faces from the sun.O bnt the liliis outshine the lasses for beauty ;the ros-s rejoice and affront them, while theylice hovvlets hide their faces from the beams of !the sun, as if their faces were fish, and theirhides hinds tongues; they abhor the brightbeams thereof as a cat docs mustard.11. .Many of these women are more danger¬ous than the mouth of devouring cannons;though they appear at angels in the church,they are as serpents in the sheets, and as Iklzc-bub above the blankets ; woes the man thatmarries such a woman, he had better I e wed¬ded to his staff*, and go to bed with the Lottie iuhis bosom.CHAP. II.TJfE who gets a scolding wife, and a mortify-in<>' oooduiother, had far belter be buriedDO 7alive, for the one will cry him deaf, and theother1 will waste his money and his meat, fill hisbelly with wind, and his heart with sonQ v, lidwith lu.n^-r aiii.1 an:;ci- he will die a doubledeath every day.2. lie that marries a ccnile wise wife with¬out a weighty purse of g^old, or as a good por¬tion, binds himself to his lady’s page, h - ownservant, captain Clout’s coacl man, ;nd ' r Pc-virty’s postilion, all tut days ut ids me.3. The care of such a husband is to clotheher antiquity, if her husband should go naked,she laboured) with her tongue, not. with herhands, describing her .genealogy of her forefa¬thers, the gentleness ot hep blood, and of herhusband’s descent, who never came to honourand poverty till he came to her.4 He that weds for money is a miser, and hefor beauty a fool; but he that for virtue andthe other two is wiser than the weaver who tooka wile and would have nothing, because he hadnothing of his own.5. And the reason was, because his wifemight say, I have made the rich with my tocherwhen thou had nought but thy t—1.,:711. - !* , ’ 7 oJ ’ rib id ’ ol bovloy0 He that marries a widow for her pelf,had better marry a whore, if she be handsomeand wholesome, for the widow will be upbra’d-ing him with the wealth and pleasure she hadewith her former husband, who was always thbest, because he was gone.7. Whereas the whore will be ashamed l<*speak of her former plersures, because they werestolen, smuggled and unlawful ; but lather shewill rejoice, love, and esteem thee, when she en¬joys the siauie without fear, scandal, shame, orreproach.8. He that marries a widow, let it be withone who had a husband, who gave her blows onevery side of her breakfast, who was banged feuknocking out the brains of his mother, and play¬ing the whore with another woman ; that shemay have to say she had got the best husbandto her last, and if you be not so, thou are apoor wretch I’ll warrant you.CHAP. III.1 Y is most natural for every sect to have a de-® desire towerds its fellows, and without thecompany of each other they have no mutualhappiness., HI liIs it not reasonable for thee, O man ! whoi< resolved to join thyself to a wife, that thoujoin thy house together, first by a mathematicalorder, tho couples and the cumsoiling thereof,cover it above and plenish it below.I3, Go to the birds anil be not blindfolded,who build their nest, lay their eggs before theyhatch their young, be not so foolish, as to havea child eefore you have a wife, nor a wife beforeyou have a house to hold her in,4*. Stuff thy house with all manner of furni¬ture necessary for the family, marry thy wifein the pudding month, and thou shalt havewarm ness all the winter,!1 5. beware of running too fast, lost you comeo fall, for the fair sex have short heels, and oftenall backwards when hearing of the voice of:i|wcdlock, swooning away, for the joy of a reliefjllong looked for; behold them not when tiieyurn up their ten toes, lest thou fall into therap from whence there is no returning, without■omrnitting great wickedness,G. But when thou goest to meet a woman. 'aie her by the mouth, as J/ungo did his marc,_'r by her words you may know whether she bew ise woman or a fool.7. If she be poor, proud, anil prideful, turne back of your hand to her, and your face tolother, for she is the worst penny-worth everme into a poor man's pack-sheet, yea, happyhe that goes home with the loom halter in hisnd Without her.88. But if you chance to admire the chasms of |one who is black and lovely, decent and discreet flionost and virtuous, tho’ never so poor ; cleavethou unte her by all means, for such a womenwill hold thee as her head and husband, thenshall thou reign as a king over thine own house,and all thy family shall be subject unto thee.9 Fur if you marry one who thinks herselfwiser than thee, she will usurp thy authoriu,countermand thy orders, and hold the more likelur monkey than her man or master.It). Keep not private company with a womenthat is a great singer, nor a girl that is game¬like, for the rooiing of the eye and the sweet¬ness of the voice, encourage men to commitwickedness.11. Take not a wife that is tear minded, forjsuch commonly is tail-'eady. soon angry, sooty]■ceased, easily persuaded to do any thing ; if ,a.jtemptation assault her, she will be easily over¬come, even to hornisy your head, for such are;live-loose’s children.12. Neither do ye encounter with one whohath a big belly, and a bosom full of paps forsuch are seldom wholesome ; nor one who is tootall, for such long people when they fall, are tooheavy to rise, but the best wav under the sun isDo marry and so continue, look back to dirtynaidens and give them the scornful catalogues follows:IS. O ye haughty maids, mock my proverbsind I’ll mock your pride, sigh for a man whent is too late, and send for him when it is toolate, and send for him when he will not come,our song in youth is, I'm o'er youno to marry/et; until the wrinkles rise on your face, likebe back of a ram-horn, and have but one iootli>ound in with a rag, then make a chanter of'our thumbs, and drones of your long fingers,nd play,Fain would I marry a man just no7C,I'vc hit my time and my lover too.14- And here I shall be silent for a short timeicn shall I vex Vanity once more, let one sayam a rattle-skull, another be is jumbled in hislodgment, or disturbed in his studies, so I maken end, lest they say, 1 am become a preacher,nd every trade is encroaching upon another ;ow he that wonders at my folly, I will wondert his wisdom, then are we even one with ano-ter.The end of the First Fart.PART II.’"'tOME, O men and ministers, and behold^ mad-men and foolish women, rushing into10the bonds of wedlock, as the horse doth unto thebattle,% No no, no holding back, but John Slothand Maggy Idle must be married, even becausethey have no means but meanness, no Teacherbut T—Ts, no wit but wickedness, no wealthbut w anton folly : and poor pride is all theirposstssicn, antiquity only excepted.3. For he is the honourable laird of Sluggard-field’s son, and she is the daughter of Siimpy-labour.4. Behold he goeth w ith his garters unbound,bis bosom bare, and both his bands holding upbis breeches.5. Up gets Maggy in the morning, againstthe hour of nine, whether it be dav-lioht or not,but not without the power of’a pearser, for shecovers herself with her petticoat, and runs tothe dung hill as a soldier to his arms, when al¬armed by the drum.6. This is the character of two, w hich may bemultiplied imo millions, two by two, that fallinto misery by matrimony, and are deadlywounded by the plague of poverty, for want ofa virtuous proceeding in themselves.7. Their great care is once to be firmlymarried, and then all their cares are drownedin the sleep of lust, and when they awake, thefiame of calf-love is quite out; then they look11«.p, when their eyes are opened, and seeing themshocked with worldly cares, almost naked, andnext to nothing.8. Now they must work or want, their hellywages war against them, their backs and bedsmust be cloathed ; their children also come uponthem, thick, thick, if not three-fold.9. Then says the husband, What hare Idone ? 1 work heard all the day to myself,and get no wages, my belly is never filled withbread, but Oh my heart is almost like to breakwith sorrow!10. O had I been still the servant of anotheriman, then had I got my daily bread and yearlywages, but now I have lost good bread, andreat pleasure, and O but her beef be a weightyurden unto me.11. Let never a man wale his wife at the kirkoor, pick up a painted image in the market, ashave done to my deadly danger.15?. Her fine husks are turned into miserablejrats, instead of paintings on her face, a si ugh>f dung, which is the sign of a sapless carcage,>ccasioned by the scarcity of scones, and scanti-[ess of pottage.13. O miserable madness, and wicked altera-on, occasioned through fond love, and forward“ indness.14. W hat can he worse in a house, than aornc-d good-wife, and a humil good man aaged cat, and burnt dog, having nothing1*2t>ut dispeace and a poet’s portion, which is per¬fect poverty.15. Now is the flames of fleshly love quenchcd, and their charity towards each other become:as cold as clay ; their former love is stnolherecto death in the smoke of their hellish wrath, antpride is fallen into the bottomless pit, the plac<from whence it came.’ADVERTISEMENT, Oyez, Oyez, Oyez.BE it known to all poor, proud, and pridefupeople, that they may mourn till thesor.row mend them ; for Deacon Pride,* the Devil •dominie, who has fallen front the top of the higlTower of Vanity, into the deep ditch of disgrace,his clothing being of soft butter, has licked upall the mots of misery and disdain on the oneside, and disgrace on the other: shame and re¬proach before him, and behind him a troop olbovs hissing at his buttocks because they wertbare.And it is hoped by me and many others, than!he shall never have confidence to set up his dafillike face among honest well thinking people any |more in this country ; for we of the Tinclai hujiSect will oppose his doctrine, and send the do-imine to be his director-FINIS.