AK . E Y 'TO THEBOOK OF PSALMS.AV/ things faid Jefus, muft he fulfilled, •which •were•written in the PJaliHs, concerning me, Luke xxiv. 44.And they, to wit, the redeemed of the Lord, whohad gotten the victory over the beaft, fing thefong of Mofct the fervant of God, and the fong of theLa?nb, faying, Great and marvellous are thy •works.Lord God Almighty ; juft and true are thy •ways, thouKing of faints, Rev. xv, 3.GLASGOW:Printed for and fold by Mrs. Orr, at her Shopscorner of Gibfon’s-wynd, Saltmarket.m. d c c. l x x x v»- VWhat is contained in the followingpages, is chiefly taken from thePreface of Dr. Horne’s Com¬mentary on the Book of Pfalms.AKEYTO THEBOOK OF PSALMS.^jT'EIE right of the book of Pfalms to a placeJL in the facred canon hath never been dif-puted; and it is often cited by our Lord andhis apoftleSj in the New Teftament, as the workof the Holy Spirit. Whether David, therefore,or any other prophet, was employed, as the in-flrument of communicating to the church fuchor fuch a particular Pfalm, is a queftion, which,if it cannot always be fatisfaftorily anfwered,need not difquiet our minds. When we difeern,in an epiltle, the well known hand of a friend,we are not folicitous about the pen with whichit was written.The Pfalms treat occafionally of the crea¬tion and formation of the world ; the difpenfa-tions of providence ; the difeoveries of God’sfree and unmerited favour to his people ; thetranfaftions of the patriarchs; the departure ofthe children of Ifrael out of Egypt; their jour-A 2C 4 3ney through thewildernefsj and fettlement in Ca¬naan ; their law, preifthood, facrifices, and cere¬monies ; the exploits of their great men, wroughtthrough faith ; their fins and captivities; theirrepentances and retlorations; the lufferings andvictories of David; the peaceful and happy reignof Solomon; the coming of tha-Mefiiah, withits effe&s and-confequenees; his incarnation,birth, life, paffion, death, refurre&ion, afeen-lion, kingdom, and priefthood; the effufion ofthe Spirit; the converfion of the Gentiles; therejeftion of the Jews; the eftabliftmient, increafe,and perpetuity of the church of Chrift; the endof the world; the general judgment ; the con¬demnation of the wicked, and final triumph ofthe righteous with their Lord and Kixtg.The Pfalms were written upon a divine, pre¬concerted, prophetical plan; and contain muchmore, than, at firlf fight, they appear to do.Moft of them have a double fenfe or meaning,viz. a literal or hiftorical fenfe, and a fpiritualor prophetical fenfe. In thefe pfalms we h iveon one fide, the Jewifit nation; and on the c-ther, the chofen in Chrift Jefus: On one fide,Canaan, and earthly happinefs ; on the other,heaven, and eternal bleflednefs: On one fide aredemption from Egyptian bondage, and tempo¬ral evil; on the other, a redemption from theflavery of fin, and the damnation of hell : On®ne fide, crimes atoned for by legal ceremonies.C 5 Ifaaifices, and priefts; on the other, fins expia¬ted by the offering of the body of Jefus, oncefor all: On one fide, temporal faviours andkings; on the other, the Saviour, who deliversfrom eternal deftruction, and brings to the en¬joyment of eternal happinefs; the everlaftingKing : On one fide, the law, and every branchof it, adapted to a favourite nation; on the o-ther, the gofpel, fuited to finners of every na¬tion, tribe, and tongue. It is evident then,that whatever God faith to David, under thequality of king of his chofen nation, he doth,at the fame time, fpeak to Jefus Chrift, as kingof all the chofen in him, who are brought to theknowledge of the truth. To each of them heindeed fpeaks in a fenfe adapted to the natureof their refpeftive kingdoms. The application,to Mefliah, of what God faith unto David, asking of his people Ifrael, is not a bare accommo¬dation of words ; but, when properly made,givesthe higheft and moft noble meaning of them.The literal or hifiorical meaning of the Pfalms,fo far as it can be attained, is worthy of ourattention : but it hath no glory, in comparifonof the glory that excelleth.It may not be amifs to run through thebook of Ffalms, and point out fome of the moreremarkable paflages, which are cited from thenceby our Lord and his apofiles, and applied tomatters evangelical.A 3r 6 ]No fooner have we opened the book, butthe fecond pfalm prefenteth itfelf, as an inaugu-ratton hymn, compofed by David, the anointedof Jehovah, when by him crowned with viflo-ry, and placed triumphant on the facred hill ofZion. But let us turn to A£ts iv. 25. and wethere find the apoftles, with one voice, declar¬ing the pfalm to be deferiptive of the exaltationof Jefus Chrift, and of the oppofition raifed a-gainft his gofpel, both by Jew and Gentile.In the eighth pfalm, we might imagine thewriter to be fetting forth the pre-eminence ofman in general, above the reft of the creation ;but by Heb. ii. 6. we are informed, that thefupremacy conferred on the fecond Adam, theman Chrift Jefus, over all things in heavenand earth, is the fubjeft there treated of.The apoftle Peter ftands up, Aifts ii. 25. andpreaches the refurredtion of Jefus, from the lat¬ter part of the fixteenth pfalm; and, lo, threethoufand fouls are converted by the fermon.Of the eighteenth pfalm we are told, in thecourfe of the facred hiftory, 2 Sam. xxii. that“ David fpake before the Lord the words of“ that fong, in the day that the Lord delivered“ him out of the hand of all his enemies, and“ out of the hand of Saul.” Yet in Rom. xv. 9.the fiftieth verfe of that pfalm is adduced as aC 7 3proof, that <c the Gentiles fhould glorify God“ for his mercy in Jefus Chrift, as it is written,“ For this caufe will I confefs to thee among“ the Gentiles, and fingunto thy name.”In the nineteenth Pfalm, David feems to befpeaking of the material heavens, and their o-perations only, when he fays, “ Their found“ is gone out into all the earth, and their“ words unto the ends of the world.” ButPaul, Rom. x. i 8. quotes the paflage to fhew,that the gofpel had been univcrfally publifhedby the apoftles.The twenty-fecond pfalm Chrift appropriatedto himfelf, by beginning it in the midft of hisfufFerings on the crofs; “ My God, my God,”&c. Three other verfes of it are, in the NewTeftament, applied to him; and the words ofthe eighth verfe were actually ufed by the chiefpriefts, when they reviled him; “ He trufted“ in God,” &c. Matth. xxvii. 43.When David faith, in the fortieth pfalm,f< Sacrifice and offering thou didft not defire—“ Lo I come to do thy willwe might fuppofehim only to declare, in his own perfon, that o-bedience is better than faCrifice. But fromHeb. x. 5. we learn, that Mefliah, in that place,fjpeaketh of his coming in the flefh, to abolifh[ 3 ]the legal fan ifices, and to do away lin, by thefacrihce of hiaifclf.That tender and pathetic complaint, in theforty-firft pfalm, “ Mine own familiar friend,“ in whom I trufied, which did eat of my“ bread, hath lift up his heel againft me,” un¬doubtedly might be, and probably was, origi¬nally uttered by David, upon the revolt of hisold friend and counfellor, Ahithophel, to thepat ty of his rebellious fon, Abfalom. But weare certain, from John xiii. 18. that this ferip-ture was fulfilled, when Chrift was betrayed byhis apoftate difciple—“ I fpeak not of you all;“ I know whom I have chofen; but that the“ feriptures may be fulfilled, He that eateth“ bread with me, hath lift up his heel againft“ me.”The forty-fourth pfalm we mufi fuppofeto have been written on occafion of a perfecu-tion, under which the church, at that time, la¬boured ; but a verfe of it is cited, Rom. viii. 3 6.as expreffive of what Chriftians were to fuffer,on their blefied Mafter’s account; “ As it is“ written, For thy fake are we killed all the** day long; we are counted as flisep appoint-ed to be flain.”A quotation from the forty-fifth pfalm, inHeb. h 8. certifies us, that part of it is addref-[ 9 1fed to the Son of God, and that it celebrateshis fpiritual union with the church, and thehappy fruits of itThe fixty-eighth pfalm, though apparentlyconverfant about Ifraelitifh viftories, the tranl-lation of the ark to Zion, and the fervices ofthe tabernacle ; yet does, under thofe figures,treat of Chrift’s refurre&ion, his going up onhigh, leading captivity captive, pouring out thegifts of the Spirit, eredting his kingdom in theworld, and enlarging it, by bringing the Gen¬tiles to the knowledge of the truth; as will beevident to any one, who knows the meaning,and confiders the force and confequence of theapoftle’s citation from it, Ephef. iv. 7, 8.“ Unto every one of us is given grace, accord-“ ing to the meafure of the gift of Chrift.“ Wherefore he faith, When he afcended up on“ high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts44 unto men.’*The fixty-ninth pfalm is five times referredto in the gofpels, as being uttered by the pro¬phet, in the perfon of Meffiah. The impre¬cations, or rather predictions, at the latter endof it, are applied, Piom. xi. 8. to the Jews; andto Judas, Adis i. 20. where the hundred andninth pfalm is alfo cited, as prophetical of thefore j- dgments which fltould befal that archtraitor, and the wretched nation of which he‘’was an epitome.[ 10 JThe evangelift Matthew, Informing us, chap,xiii. 34. that Jefus fpake to the multitude inparables, gives it as one reafon why he did fo,“ that it might be fulfilled which was fpoken“ by the prophet;” Pfal. Ixxviij. 2. “ I will“ open my mouth in a parable; I will utter“ things which have been kept fecret from the“ foundation of the world.”The ninety-firfi: pfalm was applied, by thetempter, to Meffiah : nor did our Lord objectto the application, but only to the falfe infe¬rence, which his adverfary fuggefted from it.Matth. iv. 6, 7.The ninety-fifth pfalm is explained at largeJn Heb. Hi. and iv. as relative to the Late andtrial of Chriftians in the world, and to their at¬tainment of the heavenly reft.The hundred and tenth pfalm is cited byChrift himfelf, Matth. xxii. 44, as treating ofhis exaltation, kingdom, and priefthood.The hundred and feventeenth pfalm, con-fifting only of two verfes, is employed, Rom.xv. 1 1. to prove, that the Gentiles were one dayto praife God for the mercies of redemption.The twenty-fecond verfe of the hundred andeighteenth pfalm, “ The ftone which the buil-En]€< ders refufed/’&c. is quoted fix different timesas fpoken of our Saviour.And laftly, “ the fruit of David’s body,"which God is faid, in the hundred and thirty-fecond pfalm, to have promifed that he would“ place upon his throne,” is afferted, Atts ii. 30.to be Jefus Chuift.It would be unreafonable to fuppofe, that noparts of the pfalms may by us be fpiritually appli¬ed, but fuch as are already thus exprefsly appliedfor us by the infpired writers. Let the believersof the truth confider attentively a New Teflamentcitation from the book of Pfalms; then let themas carefully read over, with a view to it, the pfalmfrom which it is taken, and fee if it will not fervethem as a key, wherewith to unlock the trea-fures of eternal wifdom; if it will not “ open“ their eyes," and Ihew them “wonderful things"in God’s law. When we are taught to confiderone verfe in a pfalm as fpoken by Meffiah, amithere is no change of perfon, what can we con¬clude, but that he is the fpeaker through thewhole ? In that cafe, the pfalm becomes at onceas much transfigured, as the bleffed perfon whois the grand fubjcft of it, was, on the mount,when his countenance did fhine as the fun, andhis raiment was white as fnow. And if Meffiahbe the fpeaker of one pfalm, what good reafoncan be given why another pfalm, where theC 12 ]fame kind of fcene is evidently defcribed, andthe fame expreffions are ufed, fhould not be con-fidered in the fame manner ?The citations from the Pfalms, in the NewTeftament, were made incidentally, and as oc-cafion was given. But can we imagine that thechurch of Chrifl: is not thereby* farther inftruc*ted in the manner of applying the pfalms toher Redeemer, and to herfelf ? Should the dif-ciples of Chrift flop at the applications of thepfalms to matters evangelical, thus incidentallyand occalionally made by the infpired writers;becaufe they are thereby directed how to pro¬ceed, with refpett to the application of otherpfalms ? Surely they fhould not.In fuch of the pfalms as were written by Da¬vid, and treat of his affairs, that extraordinaryperfon is confidered as an illuftrious reprefen-tative of Meffiah, who is more than once fore¬told under the name of David, and to whomareapplied, in the NewTefament, pfalms whichdo undoubtedly, in the letter of them, relate toDavid, and were compofed on occafion of par¬ticular circumftances which befel him.Indeed few of the pfalms, comparatively,appear to be fnnply prophetical, and to belongto Meffiah without the intervention of any otherncrfon. Moft of the pfalms that are fulfilled inC 13 ]him, have a double meaning, which ftands uponthisfoundation, that the ancient patriarchs, pro¬phets, priefts, and kings, were typical charac¬ters, in their feveral offices, and in the moreremarkable paflages of their lives, their extra¬ordinary depreffions and miraculous exaltations,forefhewing him who was to arife, as the Headof the holy family, the great Prophet, the truePrieft, the everlafting King. The governmentof Ifrael, and the religious fervices appointedby the law of Mofes, were types and figures ofgood things to come in Meffiah’s day; and theevents which happened to the ancient peopleof God, were defigned to fhadow out particularoccurrences, which fhould take place, in theaccomplifhment of man’s redemption, and therife and progrefs of the church of Chrift. Forthis reafon, the pfalms compofed for the ufe ofIfrael, and Ifracl’s monarch, and by them ac¬cordingly ufed, do admit of an application tous, who are now “ the Ifrael of God,” and toour Redeemer, who is the king of this Ifrael.Of the pfalms which relate to Ifrael, fomeare employed in celebrating the mercies vouch-fafed them, from their going forth out of E-gypt, to their compleat fettlement in Canaan.Thefe were the conftant {landing fubjefts ofpraife and thankfgiving in the Ifraelitifh church.But we are taught by the writers of the NewTeftamcnt, to confider this part of their hiftorvB[14 3as one continued figure, or allegory. We areinformed, that there is another Ifrael of God ;other children of Abraham, and heirs of thepromife •, another Egypt, from the bondage of"which they are redeemed ; another wildernefs,through which they journey; other dangersand difficulties, which there await them ; otherbread from heaven, for their fupport; and ano¬ther rock, to fupply them with living water;other enemies to overcome; another land ofCanaan, and another Jerufalem, which theyare to obtain, and to poflefs for ever. Theprovocations and punifhments, captivities andreftorations of old Ifrael afterwards, “ happen-“ ed unto them for examples,” types, or figures,-of what fhould take place with refpeft to thofewho were to enjoy all the external privilegesof the people of God, in New Teftament times;tl and they are written for our admonition.”What is faid in the Pfalms, occafionally, ofthe ceremonies, facrifices, wafhings, and purifi-ocations, appointed by the law; of the tabernacleand temple, with the fervices therein perform¬ed; and of the Aaronical priefthood; all this,the believers of the truth fhould transfer to theSacrifice of Chrift; to juftification by his blood,and fan&ification by his Spirit; to the true ta¬bernacle, or temple, not made with hands;to what was therein done for the falvation ofmen, by him who was, in one refpeft, a facri-[ *5 ]fice; in another, a temple ; and in a third, thepried; of the mod high God ; and to the thingswhich concern this peerlefs One, as he alfo nowis, a minider of the fanchiary, and of the truetabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and notman. The variety of drong expredions ufedin the nineteenth, and the hundred and nine¬teenth pfalms, to extol the enlivening, faving,healing, comforting edicacy of a law, which, inthe letter of it, could minider nothing but con¬demnation to guilty men, do fufficiently prove,that the Pfalmid underdood the fpirit of it,which is the gofpel itfelf, or the law.as fulfilledby the Mefliah.The Pfalms, thus applied, have advantageswhich no fredi compofitions, however finelyexecuted, can poffibly have ; fince, befides theirincomparable fitnefs to exprefs our fentimentswhen under the influence of the truth, they are,at the fame time, memorials of, and appeals toformer mercies and deliverances; they are ac¬knowledgments of prophecies accomplifhed jthey point out the connexion between the oldand new difpenfations, thereby teaching us toadmire and adore the wifdom of God difplayedin both, and furnilhing us, while we read, orfing them, with an inexhaudible variety of thenoblefi matter that can engage the contempla¬tions of man.B 2[ 16 ]In fome of the pfalms David defcribeth him-felf, as one hated and perfecuted without acaufe; as one accufed of crimes which he ne¬ver committed, and fuft'ering for fins, the verythoughts of which he abharred •, and one whofelife Was embittered by afflidtions-, and his fouloverwhelmed with forrows; yet, withal, as onewhom no troubles could induce to renouncehis truft and confidence in the promife's of Godconcerning him. In pfalrns of this fort, herepeateth his refolutions of adhering to the di¬vine law, and complaineth of the implacablemalice, and unrelenting fury, of his enemies.In them alfo, contrary to all appearances, hepredidleth their deftrudfion, with his own finalexaltation. But it hath been already obferved,that the ancient patriarchs, prophets, priefts,and kings, were typical charadters, in their fe-veral offices, and in the more remarkable paf-fiages of their lives, their extraordinary depref-fions and miraculous exaltations, forelhewinghim who was to arife, as the Head of the holyfamily, the great Prophet, the true Prieft, theeverlafiing King. And it is remarkable, thatin the pfalms referred to, the didtioh is nowand then exaggerated, as it were on purpofe tointimate, that they are to have their full accom-plilhment in the hiftory of the true David ;his forrows and fufferings; his refignation un¬der them all; his obedience to the will of hisfather; the temper and behaviour of his be-C *7 3trayers and murderers; the judgments to beinfli£ted/upon his enemies, and the glory to beconferred upon him.Other pfalms there are, which difclofe fardifferent feenes. In them, the forrows of Da¬vid are at an end, and the day of his deliverancehath already dawned. Jehovah appeareth inthe caufe of his affli&ed fervant. The adver-fary is difmayed and confounded. The anoint¬ed of God, according to his original defigna-tion, is at length elevated to the throne; thetemple is planned by him, and erefted by hisfon; the fervices of religion are appointed inperfect order and beauty; Jerusalem becometha praife in all the earth; and th£ kingdom iseftablifhed in honour, peace, and fafety. Inthefe pfalms, there is frequently an uncommonglow in the expreffions, and fublimity in thefigures, as it were on purpofe to intimate, thatthey are to have their full accomplifhment inMeffiah the prince, and in the things that con¬cern his kingdom. The colouring which mayfeem too bold and glaring for David the Sonof Jeffe, or for Solomon his fon, will no longerappear fo, when laid upon their great antitype.In fome of the pfalms David appears as onefuffering for his fins. When man fpeaks offin, he fpeaks of what is his own; and there-E 3E 1.8 ]fore, every pfalm, where fin is confefleii to bethe caufe of borrow, belongs originally andproperly to us, as fallen Tons of Adam, likeDavid, and all other men. This is the cafe ofthe fifty-firfi: pfalm, and other pfalms whichare called penitential p fill ms. Sometimes, in¬deed, it happens that we meet with heavy/ complaints of the number and burden of fins,in pfalms from, which paflages. are quoted inthe New Teftament, as uttered by our Redeem¬er, and in which there feems to be- no changeof perfon, from beginning to end. We areallured, for infiance, by the Apofile, Heb. x. 5.that the fixth, feventh, and eighth verfesof thefortieth pfalm, Sacrifice and offering thoudidft not defire,” &c. are fpoken by Mefliah,coming to abolilh the legal facriftces, and to pujaway fin, by the facrifice of himfelf. The fameperfon, to appearance, continues fpeaking, and,only three verfes after, complains in the fol¬lowing terms; “ Innumerable evils have com-pafied me about, mine iniquities have takene‘ hold upon me, fo that I am not able to look“ up : they are more than the hairs of my“ head, therefore my heart faileth me.” Soagain, there are no lefs than five quotationsfrom different parts of the fixty-ninth pfahn,all concurring to inform us, that Chrift is thefpeaker through that pfalm. Yet the fifth verfeof it runs thus; “ O God, thou knoweft myC 19 ]i( fooliflincfs, and my guiltinefs is not hid from“ thee.” The folution of this is, that Chrift,in the days ofhisflefh, ftanding charged withthe fin and guilt of his people, fpeaks of fuchtheir fin and guilt, as if they were his own, ac¬knowledging thofe debts to be his, for which,in the capacity of a furety, he had made him-felf refponfible.—The lamb which, under the ^law, was offered for fin, had the name “ Guilt”given unto it, becaufe the guilt contra&ed bythe offerer was transferred to that innocentcreature, and typically expiated by its blood.Was not this exadlly the cafe, in truth and rea¬lity, with the Lamb of God ? “ He did no fin,“ neither was guile found in his mouth ; but“ he bare our fins in his own body on the tree.“ He was made fin for us, who knew no fin,“ that we might be made the righteoufnefs of“ God in him.” In acknowledging the fin andguilt of his people as his own, he intimatesthat his death fhould be confidered as a trueand proper facrifice for fin.—Chrifi: and hischurch are alfo reprefented in the fcriptures asone body. He is the head, and his people arethe members. As the head fpeaks of the finof the members, as bis fin ; the members fpeakof the righteoufnefs of the head, as their righ-teoufliefs.—This is a key to any claims of righ¬teoufnefs made in the pfalms by the church andpeople of God, and to any confeffion of finmade bv Jefus Chrift.[ 20 3In fome of the pfalms there are paflages which-may be applied to Jefus Chrift, andto the peoplewho are connetted with him,as they are conformedto his image according to their meafure, andfhare with him in the happinefs which is the re¬ward of his obedience unto the death. This isthe cafe of the pfalms wherein the blelfednefsof all who fear God, or who ferve him, is de¬clared.The offence taken at the fuppofed unchari¬table and vindictive fpirit of the imprecations,which occur in fome of the pfalms, ceafes im¬mediately, if we change the imperative for thefuture, and read, not, “Let them be con-“ founded,” &c. but, “ They shall be con-“ founded,” &c. of which the Hebrew is equal¬ly capable. Such paffiges will then have nomore difficulty in them, than the other fre¬quent predictions of divine vengeance in thewritings of the prophets, or denunciations ofit in the writings of the apoftles and evangeliffs,intended to warn, to alarm, and to lead linnersto repentance; or to leave them inexcufable.It is true, that in the citation made by Peterfi'om Pfal. cix. in Acts i. 20. as alfo in thatmade by Paul from Pfal. Ixix. in Rom. xi. 9.the imperative form is preferved; “ Let his“ habitation be void, &c. Let their table be** made a fhare,” &c. But the apoitles generallyC 21 ]cited from the Greek of the LXX verfion ;and took it as it there flood, when it was fufli-cient, without any alteration, to prove the pointit was adduced to prove.The glory and bleflednefs of Mefliah’s reign,are reprefented, in fome of the pfalms, underimages borrowed from the natural world, themanner of its original production, and the ope¬rations continually carried on in it. We beholda renovation of all things, and the world, as itwere, new created, breaks forth into Tinging.The earth is crowned with fudden verdure andfertility; the field is joyful, and all that is init; the trees of the wood rejoice before theLord; the floods clap their hands in concert,and ocean fills up the mighty chorus, to cele¬brate the coming of the great King, when allthings refpecting the church of God fhall beperfected.Spiritual mercies are alfo reprefented, infome of the pfalms, by temporal deliverancesfrom ficknefs, prifon, danger of perifhing inflorins at fea, and the fundry kinds of calamityand death to which the human body is fubjeCf;as alfo by fcenes of domeftic felicity, and bythe flourifhing ftate of well ordered communi¬ties, efpecially that of Ifrael in Canaan while theblefling of Jehovah refted upon it.[ 22 ]The fltuation of the Ifraelitifli church, du¬ring the captivity of the Jews in Babylon, asdefcribed in the hundred and thirty-fcventhpfalm, is a reprefentation of the fituation ofthe New Teftament church, during the reignof Antichrift. And the deftruction of ancientBabylon, as predicted in that pfalm, is a figureof the dellrucfion of myftery Babylon, the mo¬ther of harlots and abominations of the earth.The parts of the book of Pfalms which re¬main, are chiefly fuch as treat, without figuresor examples, of wifdom and folly -, of righte-oufnefs and fin ; of the vanity of human life;of the perfections of God; of that patiencew'ith which the faithful fhould bear the fightof wickednefs triumphant in this world, look¬ing forward to the day of final retribution ; andfubjeCts of the like nature.From what hath been obferved,it rs evident,that the objections which may feem to lie a-gainft the ufe of the Pfalms, in the churchesof Chrift, ceafe at once. If it is faid, Are weconcerned with the affairs of David and of If-rael? Have we any thing to do with the arkand the temple ? They are no more. Are weto go up to Jerufalem, and worfhip on Zion ?They are defolate, and trodden underfoot bythe Turks. Are we to facrifice young bullocks,according to the law ? The law is abolifhed,,C 23 ]never to be obferved again. Do we pray forviftory over Moab, Edom, and Philiftia, or fordeliverance from Babylon ? There are no fuchnations, no fuch places in the world. Whatthen do we mean, when, taking fuch expreflionsin our mouths, we utter them in our own per-fons, as parts of our devotions before God ?Afluredly we mean a fpiritual Jcrufalem andZion; afpiritual ark and temple; a fpiritual law;fpiritual facrifices; and fpiritual viftories overfpiritual enemies ; all deferibed under the oldnames, which are ftill retained, though “ oldthings are pafled away, and all things are be-“ come new.”—By fubftituting Meffiah for Da¬vid, the gofpel for the law, the church ofChiift for that of Ifrael, and the enemies of the-one for thofe of the other, the pfalms are madeour own.the end.