AT E S T I M O N YTO THEWork of ReformationIBRITAIN AND IRELAND.3Y TK£ LATE REVEREND.Mr. SAMUEL RUTHERFOORD,Profeffor of Divinity at.St. Andrews.TO WHICH ARE ADBEB,A Short ACCOUNT of his LIFE*with fome of his Laft Words.GLASGOW,F-inted by J. & M. Robertfon, [No. 18.] Salt market,1806.AT E S T I M O N YTO THEVORK OF REFORMATIONBRITAIN and IRELAND.HOUGH the Lord needeth not a Teftimonrfrom fuch a wretched man as I, and if all the'orld fhould be filent, the very ftones would cry,|ijl is more than debt, that I Ihould confefs Chrift,:iefcre men and angels. It would fatisfy me not attle, that the throne of the Lord Jefus were ex¬ited above the clouds, the Heaven of heavens,hd on both fides of the fun ; and that ail poffiblei raife and glory were afcribed to him. That, byI >3 grace, I might put my feal, fuch as it is, unto:Uat long, even the neve long of thefe, who with afud voice fing, Rev. v. 9. ‘ Thou art worthy toke the book, and to open the feals thereof: Forou waft flain, and haft redeemed us to God byy blood, out of every kindred, and tongue, andibople, and nation, and haft made us unto our Godtugs and priefts : And w'e fhali reign, upon theurth.’ And bleiled were I, could 1 lay to my earj faith, and fay, Amen, to the Pfalm ‘ of thenany angels round abcut the Throne, and theIh’afts, and elders,, whofe number is ten thoufandFeb. 23th, 1661.4 Mr. RutherfoorcTs ’Tcjlimony.times ten thoufand, and thoufands of thonfands;faying with a loud voice, ‘ Worthy is the Lam!that was flam, to receive power, and riches, amtviidom, and ftrength, and honour, and glory, ambleffing.’ And if I heard ‘ every creature, which iin heaven, and on the earth, and under the earthand fuch as are in the f«a; and all that are in then(as John heard them) faying, Bleffing, and honounand glory, and power be unto him that fitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever andver.’ I mean not any fuch vifible reign of Chrifl; O'earth, as the Millenarians fancy. I believe (Lorhelp my unbelief) the do&rine of the holy Pf<phets, anfl tire Apoftles .of our Lord Jefus Chrifcontained in the books of the Old and New Teflr;ment, to be the undoubted truth of Cod; and a perfeft rule of faith, and the only way of falvationjAnd I do acknowledge the firm of the Chriflian re,ligion, exhibited in the CcnfeflSons and Catechifnc)of the reformed proteftant churches. And in theNtltional Covenant, divers times fworn by the KingMajefty, the ftate and church of Scotland, and fea.ed hythe teftimony and fubfcriptions of the N< bleBarons, Gentlemen, Citizens, Miniflers and Prclfefibrs of all ranks : as alfo in the Solemn Leagtjand Covenant, in the three kingdoms of Scotian'England, and Ireland. And I do judge, and in mlconfcience believe, that no power on earth can alfol ve ana liberate the people of God from the boneand facred ties of the oath of God. I am perfuaced, that Afa ached warrantably, in making a lavthat the people Ihould hand to the covenant, atin receiving into the covenant fuch as were nothis kingdom, 2 Citron, xv. 6, 10. As did alfo tbzekiah, in fending a proclamation through all tttribes, from Dan to Beerlheba, that they flrou.come and keep the paflover unto the Lord at Jeidem, 2 Chrou. xxx. 6, 7. though their own pritMr- Rutherfoord's Tefiimony.. 5ses did not come along with them : Yea, and it' s nature’s law, warranted by the wo.d, Thati lations fhould encourage, and 11 ir up on - another,l o feek the true God. It is alfo prophefied, that) livers narions lliould excite one another this way,.Ila. iii. 8. '• Many people lliall go, and fay. Comeye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,:o the honfe of the God of Jacob, and he will teachus of his ways.’ Zech. viii. 2. ‘ And the inhabi-Jtants of one city (hall go to another, faying, Letus go fpeedily to pray before the Lord, and to feek.the Lord of holls: I will go alfo. Yea, manyipeople, and flrong nations fliall come to feek theLord of hofls in Jernfalem ; and to pray before theXord.’ There is alfo a clear prophecy to be ac-1 compliihed under the New Teftament, ‘ That If-irael and Judah lhall go together and feek the Lord!jthey fhalt a Ik the way to Zion with their faces thi¬therward, laying, Come, and let us join ourfelvesH to the Lord, in a perpetual covenant, that lhall not. be forgotten,’ Jer. 1. 4, 5. It is alfo foretold, thatjJ different nations lhall confederate with the Lord,n and with one another, Ifa. xix. 23, 24, 25. ‘Inj| that day there iball be an highway out of Egyptjl| to Affyria, and the Affyrian lhall come to Egypt,I and the Egyptian into Affyria, and the Egyptians.II lhall ferve with the Affyrians In that day, fliallI Ilrael be the third with Egypt, and with Affyr 1a,0 even a bleffing m the midfl; of the land: Whom theII Lord of holts lhall blefs, faying, Bleffed be Egyptit my people, and Aflyria the work of my hands, and1 Ifrael mine inheritance.’The Church of Scotland had once as much of| the prefence of Chrift, as to the power and purityI of Dodtrine, Worlhip, Difcipiine, and Govern¬ment, as many we read of, fince the Lord took nisant lent people to be his covenanted Church. Thej Lord Itirrcd up our nobles to attempt a reforma-6 Jl/r. R utherfoord's ‘Tejlimony.tion in tlie laft age, through manj'- difficulties, anagainft much oppofition, from thofe in fupreirauthority: He tirade bare his holy arm; and carri]ed on the work glorioufly, like himfelf: his righfo nd getting him the viclory, until the Idolatr^of Rome, and her curfed Mafs were daffiejhopeful Reformation was in feme meafure fettlejand a found Confeffion of Faith was agreed upotby the Lords of the Congregation. The people o.jGod, according to the laudable cultom of otheiancient Churches, the Proteftants in France andHolland, and the renowned princes of Germany!did carry on the work, in an innocent felf-defenlivflwar, which the Lord did abundantly blefs. Whemjlour land and eburch were thus contending for thail]betgun Reformation, thefe in authority did ftilljoppofe the work: And there were not wanting,!men from among ourfelves, men of prelatical fpi- Irits, who, with fome other time-ferving courtie:s, jkid net a littl^ undermine the building. And we |doating too much upon found Parliaments, andlawfully cenditutc General Affemblies, fell fromour firft love, to felf-feeking, fecret-banding, andlittle-fearing the oath of God.Afterwards, our work in public was too muchin fequeftration of eftates, fining and imprifoning,more than in a compaffionate mournfulnefs of fpi-rit towards thofe whom we faw to oppofe the work.In our Affemblies, vie. were more bent to fet up affate oppofite to a Hate: more upon forms, cita¬tions, leading of witneffes, fufpenfions from benefi- 'ccs, than fpiritually to perfuade, and work uponthe confcience, wuth the meeknefs and gentlenefsof Chrift. The glory and royalty of our princelyRedeemer and King was trampled on, as anymight have feen in our Affemblies. What waythe army, and the fword, and the countenance ofnobles and officers feemed to fway, that way wereMr. Ruthsrfoord's 'Tejli/fiotty. 7the ceufures carried. It had been better, had therebeen more days of hixniliation ia Affemblies, by-nods, Prelbytevies, Congregations, Families, andfar lefs adjourned commiflions, new peremptoryfummons, and new drawn up procefl'es. And ifthe njeekncfs and geutlenefs of our Mailer had gotfo much place in our hearts, that we might havewaited on gaiift'ayers and parties contrary minded;and we might have driven gently, as our MailerChrift, who loves not to over-drive, but carriesthe lambs in his bofom.If the word of truth in the Old hnd New Tef-tamentbe a fufficient rule, holding forth what is aChriltiau army, whether ofienfive or defenlive;whether clean, or finfully mixed,—then muit weleave the queftion betwixt our public brethren andus to be determined by that rule : But if there beno fuch rule in the word, then the confederaciesand affociations of the people of God with the i-dolatrous, apoftate Ifraelites, with the .E^gyptainsI" and Alfyrians, as that of Johoiaphat with Ahab,and thefe of Ifrael and Judah with Egypt and Af-fyria, lhall not be condemned; but they are oftenreproved and condemned in fcripture. To deny thefcripture to be a fufticient rule in this cafe, were toaccui'e it of being imperfect and defective:—an highmid unjalt reflection on the holy word of Go.i!Beyond all queilion, the written word doth teach,what is a right coallituted court, and what nor,Pfal. x ; what is a right conllituted houfe, andwhat not, Jolh. xxiv. 15 ; what is a true ciiurch,and what is a fynagogue of Satan, Rev. ii; whatis a clean camp, and what is an unclean. We arenot for an army of Saints, and free of all mixtureof i!l affected men: But it feems an hig-h prevan-cation for church-men to counfel and teach. Thatthe weight and trull of the affairs of Chnlt, andhis kingdom, ihould be laid upon the whole party8 Mr. Rutherfcord's Tejlimony.of fuch as have been enemies to our caufe; con-t-arj to the word of God, and the declarations,remonftrances, folemi warnings, and ferious ex¬hortations of his church, whole public protefta-tionsthe Lord did admirably bkl's, to the encour¬agement of the godly, and the terror of all theoppofers of the work.Since we are very fhortly to appear before ourdreadful Mailer and Sovereign, we cannot pafsfrom our proteftation, trailing we are therein ac¬cepted of him ; though ave fltiould ly under the im¬putation of dividing fpirits, and unpeaceable men.We acknowledge all due obedience in the Lord tothe King’s Majelty; but we dil’own that eccleliallicfunrematy, in and over the church, which fomeafcribe to him; that power of commanding exter¬nal wotlhip not appointed in the word; and layingbonds upon the confciences of men, where Chrillhas made them free. We difown antichrillian pre¬lacy bowing at the name of Jefus, faints’days, ca¬nonizing of the dead, and other fuch corrupt in¬ventions of men, and look on them as the highway to Popery. Alas ! now there is no need of afpirit of prophecy to declare what Ihall be the wo-ful condition of a land that hath broken covenant,firlt pradically, and then legally, with the Lordour God ; And what Ihall be the day of the lilent,and dumb watchmen of Scotland ? Where will wreleave our glory ? and what if Chrill depart out ofour land ? We verily judge, they are moll loyal totht King’s Majesty, who defire the drofs may be* feparated from the iilver, and the tlrrone ellablifhedin righteoufnefs and judgement. We •are not (ourvritnefs is in heaven) agamfl his Majefty’s tittle bybirth to the Kingdom, and the right of the royalfamily: but that the controverfy of wrath againltthe royal family may be removed; that the hugeguilt of the throne may be mourned for before theMr. Ruth erf oar £ s eTeJlimonf. 9Lord; and that his Majeily may ftand conftantly*all the days of his life, to the covenant of God, byoath, feal, and fubfeription, known to the world;! that fo peace and the bleffings of heaven may fol»: low his government; that the Lord may be bin3 rock and ihield : that the juft may flourifh in hi'3time ; that men fearing God, hating covetoufnefs,| and of known integrity and godlinefs, may be jnd-! ges and rulers under his Majefty:—and they are not! really loyal and faithful to the fupreme magiftrate,1 who wilh not Cuch qualification in him. We arei not, in this particular, contending that a prince,1 who is not a convert or a found believer, falls fromhis royal dominion; the feriptures of God warrant| us to pray* for and obey in the Lord, princes andij fupreme magiftrates, that are otherwife wicked;| and to t ender all due obedience to them, Rom, xii..If 2, 5. 2 Tim, ii. 12. 1 Pet. li. 18. Onr fouls fhould.3 be afflicted before the Lord, for the burning of theii caufes of God’s wrath. A fad practice, too likeI: the burning of the roll at Jehudi, Jer. xxxvi. 22.i|i| In thefe controverfics, we Ihould take fpecial heedi: to this, that Chrift is a free, independent Sovereign,li King and Lawgiver. The Father hath appointed1: him his own King in mount Zion ; and he cannot: I endure, that the powers of tiie world ftiouli en-, croach upon his royal prerogatives, and preferibelaws to him: This prefumption is not far from thatof citizens that hated him, Luke xix. 14. ‘He ftiallnot rule over us and from the intolerable prideof thofe who are for breaking a funder the bands ofthe Lord, and his anointed, and for calling awaytheir cords from them, Pfal. ii. 3. Efpecially fee-;f J ing the man Chrift would not take the office of aj judge upon him, Luke xii. 14. and difeharged hisi* dilciples, to exercife a civil lordlliip over their bre-J thren. True it is, the godly magiftrate may’ com-ft mand the minifte-rs of the gofpel to do their duty.jo 7,1r. Rutherfoard's Tejlhnony'.but not under the pain of ecclefiaftic-cenfure, as ifit were proper for him to call and uncal, depofeand fufpend from the holy miniftry. The lordlyfpiritual government in and over the church, is giv¬en unto Chrift, and none elfe; he is the foie ec-clefiaftic lawgiver. It is proper to him to fmitewith the rod of his mouth ; nor is there any otherfhonlder, in heaven or in earth, that is able to bear ||the government. As this hath been the great con- |troverfy betwixt our Lord Jefus and the powers of 19the world from the beginning ; fo it has ruined all Ithat coped with him. Chrift has proven a rock of Jloffence to them : they have been dallied to pieces Hby the ftone that was cut out of the mountain with- fcut Hands, l)an. ii. 34, 45. And the other powers, Ithat enter the lifts with him, ftiall have the famedifmal exit. Whofoever ftiall fall on this ftone ftnltbe broken ; and on whomfoever it ftiall fall, it (hallgrind them to powder, Match, xxi. 44. As thebleft'ed prophets and apoftles of our Lord contendednot a little with the rulers of the earth, that Chriltfhould be head corner-ftone : that Chrift is the on¬ly head of his church, is as fare, as that he died,was buried, and rofe again. It is a moft vidloriousnr.d prevailing truth, not only preached and atteft-td by the ambafladors of the Lord of hods, butconfirmed by blood, martyrdom, and fufftring.—.Many precious faints have thought it their honour |and dignity, to fuffcr 111 am e and reproach for thename of Jefus : And it is beyond doubt, that pal-live fuffering for the precious name of Chrift comesneareft to that noble fampler, wherein Chrift, tho’a fon, learned obedience by the things winch he fuf-lered, Heb. v. 8. Now blefl'ed is the foul, wholoves not his life to death. Rev. xii. it. bor onInch lefts the fpirit of glory and of God, 1 Pet.iv. 14. Wc cannot but fay, it is a fad time to ourland at prefer.t, it is a day of daiknefs, and rebuke.i' r■Mr* Rutherfoord's Lij!* - tyi snd blafphemy. The I-ord hath covered himfelf| with a cloud in his anger, we looked for peace, buti behold evil: Our fouls rejoiced, when his majellyill did fwear the covenant of God, and put thereto hisr” feal and fubfcription; and therefore confirmed itlj by his royal promife. So that the fubjects’ heartsbleffed the Lord, and relied upon the healing wordof a prince. But now, alas! the contrary is enacied: by law, the carved work is broken down, ordinan¬ces are defaced, and we are brought into the form-: er bondage and chaos of prelatical confufions. The' royal prerogative of Chrill is pulled from his head,i and, after all the days of forrow we have feen, wehave juft caufe to fear we fhali be made to read andI eat that book, wherein is written mourning, andlamentation, and wo. Yet we are to believe Chrift: will not fo depart: from the land, but a retunantlliall be faved ; and he lhall reign a victorious con-i rjuering king to the ends of the earth. O thatthere were nations, kindreds, tongues, and all thei people of Chrift’s habitable world, encompaffingi his throne with cries and tears for the fpirit ofit fupplication, to be poured down upon the inha-i|l bitauts of Judah for that effe<ft.IA Brief Account of Mr. Rutherfoord’sLife, with fome of his laft words./I" R* SA.MUEL Rutherfoord, a gentlemani-VX by extraction, having fpent fome time atI the grammar-fchool, went to the univerlity of E-: dinburgh, where he was la much admired for his3 pregnancy of parts, and defervediy looked upon ast one from whom fome great things might be ex¬pected, that in a ftiort time (though then but veryx 2 Air. Rutherfoord's Life.young) he was made profeflbr of philofophy in thatuniverfity.Some time after this he was called to be minifteuat Anwoth, in the (hire of'Galloway, unto whichcharge he entered by means of the then vifcount ofKenmuir, without any acknowledgement or en¬gagement to the bilhops. There he laboured withgreat diligence and fuccefs, both night and day, nf-ing ufually by three o’clock in the morning, Ipend-ing the whole time in reading, praying, writing,catechifmg, yiuting and other duties belonging tothe minifterial profeffion and employment.Here he wrote his Exercitatione.s de gratia, &c.for wh ich he was fummoned (as early as June 1630)before the high coinmitlion-court, but the weatherwas fc tempeiluous as to obftruct the paffage of thearchbiihcp of St. Andrews hither, and Mr. Colvil,cne of the judges, having befriended him, the dietwas defected. About the fame time, h:s firft wifedied after a fore ficknefs of thirteen months, and hehimfelf was fo ill of a tertian fever for thirteenweeks, that then he could not preach on the Sab¬bath day, without great difficulty.Again in April 1634, he was threatened withanother prnfecution at the inflance of the biihop ofGalloway before the high comnjiffion-court; andneither were thefe threatenings all the reafons Mr.Rutherfoor4 had to lay his account with fuffering,and as the Lord would not hide from Ids faithfulfervant Abraham the thing he was about to do,neither would he conceal from this Ion of Abrahamwhat his purpofes were concerning him ; for in aletter to the provoil’s wife of Kirkudbngbt, datedApril 20, 1633, he fays, ‘That upon the 17th and18th of AuKuft, he got a full anfwer of his Lord tobe a graced minifter, and a chofen arrow hid in hisquiver.’ Accordingly the thing he looked for cameupon him, for he was again fummoned before theMr. Rutherfoorct’s Life. 13liigh commiffion-court for his non-conformitj-, hispreaching againft the five articles of Perth, and hisforementioned book of exercitations apologetic# pordivina gratia, which book they alledged did reflectupon the church of Scotland ; but the truth was,fays alate hiftorian, (Stevenfon,) The argument ofthat book did cut the finews of Arminianifm, andgalled the Epifcopal clergy to the very quick, andi'o bilhop Sydferf could endure him no longer.When he came before the commiflion-court, he al¬together declined it as a lawful judicatory, andwould not give the chancellor (being a clergyman^and the bilhops their titles by lording of them; yetfome had the courage to befriend him, particularlythe lord Lorn, (afterwards the famous marquis ofArgyle) who did as much for him as was withinhis power; but the biflrop of Galloway threatening!|! that if he got not his will of him, he would writeto the king ; it was carried again!! him, and uponthe 17th of July 1636, he was difcharged to exer-cife any part of his miniftry within the kingdomof Scotland, under pain of rebellion, and orderedwithin fix months to confine himfelf within the cityof Aberdeen, Wc. during the king’s pleafure;—which fentence he obeyed, and forthwith went tothe place of his confinement.From Aberdeen he wrote many of his famousletters, from which it is evident that the confola-.'tion of the Holy Spirit did greatly abound with himin his fufferings, yea, in one of thefe letters, heexprefles it in the llrongeil terms, when he fays, ‘ Inever knew before, that his love was in fuch a mea-1 fure. If he leave me, he leaves me in pain, and fickj of love, and yet my ficknefs is my life and health.I have a fire within me, I defy all the devils in helland all the prelates in Scotland tocaft water on it.’Here he remained upwards of a year and a half, bywhich time he made the doctors of Aberdeen know14 Mr. RutherfoorcPf Life»that the puritans (as they called them) were clergy¬men as well as they. But upon notice, that theprivy counfel had received in a declinature again!!the high commiflxon-court in the year 1638, heventured to return to his flock at Anwoth, wherehe again, took great pains, both in public and pri¬vate, amongft that people, who from all quartersreforted to his miniltry, fo that the whole country-lide might account tbemfdves his particular flock,and it being then in the dawning of the Refor¬mation, found no fmall benefit by the gofpel, thatpart of the ancient prophecy being further accom-plilhed. In the wildernefs Jhall waters break out,•andJlreams in the defart, Ifa. xxxv. 6.He was before that venerable afiembly held atOlafgow7 in 1638, and gave an account of all thei'ehis former proceedings with refpe£t to his confine¬ment, and the caufes thereof. By them he wras ap¬pointed to be profeflbr of divinity at St. Andrews,’and colleague in the miniftry with worthy Mr. Blairwho was tranflated hither about the fame time.—And here God did again fo fecond this his emin¬ent and faithful fervant, that, by his indefatigablepains both in teaching in the fchools and preach¬ing in the congregation, St. Andrews, the feat ofthe archbifhop (and by that means the nurfery ofall fuperllition, error, and profanenefs) foon be¬came forthwith a Lebanon, out of which weretaken cedars for the building of the houfe of theLord, almoft through the whole land, many ofwhom he guided to heaven before himfelf, (whoreceived the fpiritual life by his miniftry) and manyothers did walk in that light after him.And as he was mighty in the public parts of re¬ligion, fo he was a great praftifer and encouragerof the private duties thereof. Thus, in the year1640, when a charge was foifted in before the ge-*neral aflembly at the in#ance of Mr. Henry GuthrieMr. RutherfoortTs Lift-. 15: mini'fterat Stirling, (afterward biihop of Dunkeld)i again!! private fociety-meetiugs, (which were thenabounding in the land) on which enfued muchi reafoning, the one fide yielding that a paper beforeI drawn up by Mr. Henderfon ihould be agreed unto,;| concerning the order to be kept in thefe meetings,:! &c. but .Guthrie and his adherents oppofing this,I Mr. Rutherfoord, with was never much difpofed| to fpeak in judicatories, threw in this fyllogifm,! * What the fcriptures do warrant, no afiembly mayI difcharge, but private meetings for religious exer-.:jcifes the fcriptures do warrant, Mai. v. 16. 'ThenI they that feared the Lord fpake often one /• another,&c. James v. 6. Confefs your faults one to another,j and pray one for another, &.C. Thefe things couldI eot be done in public meetings, &c.’ And altho’I die earl of Seaforth there prefent, and thofe of"jji Guthrie’s faftion, upbraided this good man fori!! this, yet it had influence upon the majority of thei! members, fo that all the oppofite party got done,was an a& anent the ordering of fam’ly-worfliip.He was alfo one of the Scots commiflioners ap«i'pointed anno 1643, to the Weftminlter afiembly,(i and was very much beloved there for his unparal-I* leled faithfulnefs and xeal in going about his Maf-Iter’s bufmefs. It was during this time, that hei publiflied Lex Rex, and feveral other learned piecestl agamft the Eraftians, Anabaptifls, Independents,land other fedlaties that began to prevail and in-| creafe at that time, and none ever had the courageji to take up the gauntlet of defiance thrown downij by this champion.When the principal bufinefs of this afiemblv was1 pretty well fettled, Mr. Rutherfoord, in Oftoberi 24, 1647, unoved that it might be recorded in thecfcribe’s book, that the afiembly had enjoyed thelafliitance of the commiluoners of the church of■ Scotland, all the time they had been debating and16 Mr. RutherfoorcPs Rife*perfe£l!ng tbefe four things mentioned in the So¬lemn League, viz. Their compofing a Directoryfor Worfhip, an uniform Confeffion of Faith, aForm of Church Government and Difcipline, andthe Public Catechifrn; which was done in about a.week after he and the reft returned home.Upon the death of the learned Delmatius, anm^651, the magiftrates of L^recht in Holland, be¬ing abundantlv fatisfied as to the learning, piety,and true zeal of the great Mr. Rutherfoord, invit¬ed him to the divinity-chair there; but he couldnot be perfuaded. His reafons elfewhere (whendifluadmg another gentleman from going abroad)feem to be exprefled in thefe words; ‘ Let me in¬treat you to be far from the thoughts of leavingthis land. I lee it and find it, that the Lord hathcovered the whole land with a cloud in his anger; jjbut though I have been tempted to the like, I had rrather be in Scotland beiide angry Jefus Chrift,(knowing- he mindeth no evil to us) than in anyEden or garden on the earth.’ From which it isevident, that he chofe rather to fufter afilidlion inhis native country, than to leave his charge andflock in time of danger. He continued with themtill the day of his death, in the'free and faithfuldifcharge of his duty.When the unhappy difference full out.betweenthofe called the protefters and the public refblution- |ers, anno 1653 and 1651, lie efpouled the protei- Iters’ quarrel, and gave faithful warnings againft thefe Ipublic refolutions, and likewiie during the time of !Cromwell’s ufurpation, he contended againft theprevailing feHaries that then uihered in with thePrdteHor by virtue of his Toleration. And fuchwas his unwearied aftiduity and diligence, that he:feemed to pray conftantly, to preach conftantly,,to catechife conftantly, and to vifit the fick, ex¬horting them from houfe to houfe: to teach as;| i,/A/r. Rutherfoord'’s Life. 17aich in the fchools, and fpend as rpuch time withic ftudents and young men in fitting them for theI linitiry, as if lie had been fequeftrate from all theorldbefides, and yet withal to write as much, asif he had been conflantly fhut up in his itudy.! But no fonncr did the reftoration of Charles II.ike place, than the face of aff-irs began to change,rid after his fore-mentioned book Lex Rex i^asjurnt at the crofs of Edinburgh, and at the gatesIf the new college-of St. Andrews, where he wasIp'ofelTor of divinity, the parliament, in 1661, werei have an indictment laid before them agamfllim, and fuch was their humanity, (when everyody knew he was a-dying) that they caufed fum-uon him to appear before them at Edinburgh, toliifwer to a charge of high trqafon : But he had a|igher tribunal to appear before, where his Judge .Iras his friend, and was dead before that timeame, being taken away from the evil to come.| When on his death-bed, he lamented much thati e was withheld from bearing witnefs to-the workif reformation, fmee the year 1638, and upon the!)8th of Feb. he gave a large and faithful teflimo-y * againlt the fmful courfes of that time : whichfeftimony he fubenbed twelve days before hisJeath, being full of joy and peace in believing.J. During the time of his lalt ficknefs, he utteredmany favoury fpeeches, and often broke out in ai;.ind of facred rapture, exalting and commendinghe Lord Jefus, efpecially when his end drew near.:Ie often called him his bleffed Mailer, his kinglyj iing. Some days before his death, he laid, ‘ IIfiali Ihine ; I (hail fee h im as list is; 1 lhall fee himeign, and all his fair company with him, and!rail have my large lhare. Mine eyes lhall fee myLedeemer ; thefe very eyes of mine ; and none* This Teftimony is printed immediately preceding this Ac.aunt of Iris Life.18 Mr. liutherfoard's Lirc.other for me. This may feem a wide word : b'«-Let rait is no fancy nor delulion : it is true.-Lord’s nameibe exalted, and, if he will, let mname be grinded to pieces, that he may be allall. If he fliould flay me ten thoufand times,will triifl.’—He often repeated Jer. xv. 16. r‘lhwords were found of vie, and I did eat them.When exhorting one to diligence, he faid,is no eafy thing to be a Chrillian. For me, 1 hav1got the victory, and Chrift is holding out both hi|arms to embrace me.’ At another time, to ibmfriends prefer^, he faid, ‘ At the beginning of nr]falferings, 1 had mine own fears, like other finfrmen, led I fhould faint, and not be carried credtably through, and I laid this before the Lord, anias luxe as ever hefpoke to rne in his word, as fuas his bpirit witneffeth to iny heart, he hath aicep ted my fufferings. He laid to me, Fear nothe outgate flxall not be fimply matter of prayebut matter of praife. I faid to the Lord, If hibould flay me five thoufand times five thoufand,would trod in him : and 1 fpeak with much trembling, fearing 1 ilrouli net make rny part goodbut as really as ever he fpake to me by his Spirihe witntffed ?o my heart, that his grace flxouldfufikient.’ The Thurfday night before his deatbeing much grieved with the date of the publiche had this expreffion, ‘ Horror hath taken holejon me.’ And afterwards, falhng on his own comdition, he faid, ‘I renounce all that ever he mad®me will and do, as defiled and imperfeft, as coing from me; I betake myfelf to Chrift for fantification as well as juftification : Repeatmthefe words, He is made of God to me wfdom, riglteoufnefs, &c.—adding, 1 dole with it, let him benfo, he is my all in all.March 17th, three gentlewomen came to feehim, and, after exhorting them to read the wordMr. RutherfoorcTs Life. 19to be much in prayer, and much in communionwith God, he faid, ‘ My honourable Matter anc^lovely Lord, my great royal King hath not a matchin heaven nor in earth. I have my own guilt, likecither tinful men ; but he hath pardoned, loved,wathed, and given me joy unfpeakable and full ofj glory. I repent not that ever 1 owned his caufe.I Tliefe whom ye call Protelters, are the witmilesI of Jefus Chrift. 1 hope never to depart from thati;| caufe, nor fide wdth thofe' that have burnt thecaufes of God’s wrath. They have broken theiri covenant oftener than once or twice; but 1 believei the Lord will build Zion, and repair the wajle placesi>f Jacob. Oh ! to obtain mercy to wrellle with■I Goa, for their eternal falvation. As for this pref-bytery, it hath Hood in oppofition to me thefeJyears pall. I have my record in heaven, I had noparticular end in view, but was feeking the hon-lljour of God, the thriving of the gofpel in this place,::and the good of the new college, that focietySvhich 1 have left upon the Lord. What perfonalvrongs they have done me, and what grief theyrave occafioned to me, I heartily forgive them,’.Hand defire mercy to vvrettle with God for mercy:o them, and for the falvation of them all.’The fame day, Mefiis. James M‘Gill, John,Vardlaw, William Vilant, and Alexander Wed-erburn, all members of the fame prelbytery withim, coming toviiit him, he made them welcome,nd faid, ‘My Lord and Mafter is the chief of teniihoufand; none is comparable to him in heaven or■‘jjaith. Dear brethren, do all for him ; preach for/gthrift, pray for Chrift, feed the flock committedyour charge for Chrill: do all for Chriftbe¬ware of men-pleafing ; there is too much of it a-,raiongft us. The new college hath broke my heart,a can fay nothing of it; 1 have left it upon theord of the houfe, and it hath been, and {fill is20 Mr. Rutherfoord's Life.my defire, that he may dwell in this fociety, andthat the youth may be fed with found knowledge.’*  After this, he faid, ‘ Dear brethren, it m;ayfeem pr.efumptuous in me a particular man, to fenda commiffion to a prefbytery;’—and Mr. M'Gillreplying. It was no prefumption, he continued.—-' Dear brethren, take a commifiion from me, adying man, to them to appear for God and hiscaufe, and adhere to the dodlrine of the covenant,and have a care of the flock committed to theircharge, let them feed the flock out of love, preachfor God, vifit and catechize for God, and do allfor God : beware of men-pleafing, the chief Shep¬herd will appear Ihortly, l£c. I have been a fm-ful man, and have had mine own failings ; butmy Lord hath pardoned and accepted my labours.I adhere to trie caufe and covenant; and refolvenever to depart from the protedatiou * again!! thecontrovertedafl'emblies. I am the man I was- Iam ilill for keeping the government of the kirk ofScotland entire, and would not, for a thoufand.worlds, have had the leaft hand ih the burning ofthe caufes of God’s wrath. Oh ! for grace towreltle with God for their falvation.’Mr. Vilant having prayed at his defire,, as theji,took their leave, he renewed his charge to them,to feed the flock out of love. The next morningas he recovered out of a fainting, in which thejwho looked on, expe&ed his diffolution, he faidi* I feel, I feel, I believe, I joy and rejoice, I feeojon manna.’ Mr. Blair (whole praife is in thchurches} being prefent, he took a little wine in/noon to refrelh. himfelf, being then very weak]he laid to him, ‘Ye feed on dainties in heaver* This appears to be thefe papers, bearing the name of rdprefentation, propofitions, proteltations, &c. given in by hi«|and iVfefl'rs. Cant and Livingfton, to the Min liters and EldeJ.Diet at Edinbuig-h, July 24, 1054.nAir. Ratherjbord’s Life. 21: i and think nothing of" our cordials on -earth.’ Her; anfwered, ‘ They are all but dung ; but they areJ Chrift’s creatures, and, oat of obedience to his; i command, I take them. Mine-eyes flial! feel| my Redeemer, I know he {hall ftand at the laltday upon the earth, and I Avail be caught up ia: the clouds to meet him in the air, and I lhall bevj ever with him ; and what would you have more ?i- there is an end.’ And if retching out his hands,j he faid again, ‘There is an end.’ And a littlei after, he faid, ‘ I have been a Angle man, but Iji hand at the bell pafs that ever a man did : Chrifte is mine, and I am his.’—And fpoke much of the| white Itone and new name. Mr. Blair ^who lovedI'j with all his heart to hear Chrilt commended) faidI to him again.—‘ What think ye now of Chrift ?’i] To which he anfwered, ‘ I {ball live and adore4 him. Glory, glory to my Creator and my Re-deemer for ever! Glory ftiines in Emmanuel’s land.*|| In the afternoon of that day, he faid, ‘ Oh ! thata all my brethren in the public may know what al. Mafter I have ferved, and what peace I h^ve thisJ day I fnall fleep in Chrift, and when I awake, Ijk| lhailbe facisfied with his likenefs, Th;s‘night {hallIJ clofe the door, and put my anchor within the vail,ft and 1 ftiall go away in a fleep by five of the clockjjj in the morning,’ (which exaclly fell out). Tho’j| be was very weak, he had often this expreffion,I ‘ Oh ! for arms to embrace him ! Oh ! for a welljjj tuned harp !’ He exhorted Dr. Colvil (a man whocomplied with Prelacy afterward) to adhere to thegovernment of the church of Scotland, and to the» doffrine of the covenanr, and to have a care to| feed the youth with found knowledge. And thefj; doctor being the profeflbr of the new college, lieM told him. That he heartily forgave him all the| wrongs he had done him. He fpoke likewife toMr. Honeyman, (afterward biftiop Honeyftian)-H!22 Afr. Rutherfoord’s. Life.who came to fee him, faying, ‘ Tell the prelby-tery to anfwer for God, and his caufe and cove¬nant.’ faying, ‘ The cafe is defperate, let them beiii their duty.’—Then directing his fpeech to Mr.Colvil and Mr. Honeyman, he faid, ‘ Stick to it.You may think it an eafy thing in me, a dying man,that, am now going onr of the reach of all thatmen can do; but He, before whom I (land, knows,that I dare advdfe no colleague or brother to dowhat I would not cordially do myfelf, upon allhazard; 'and as for the caufes of God’s wrath, thatmen have now condemned, tell Mr. James Woodfrom ms, that I had rather lay down my head ona Scaffold, and have it chopped off many times,(were it poffible) before I had paffed from them.’And then to Mr. Honeyman, he faid,—‘ Tell Mr.Wood, I heartily forgive him all the wrongs hehas done me, and defire him from me, to declarehimfelf the man that he is ftill, for the govern¬ment of the church of Scotland.’Afterwards, when fome fpake to him of hisformer painfulnefs and faithfulnefs in the minif-try, he faid, ‘ I difclaim all that: the port that Iwould be at, is redemjJtion and forgivenefs thro’his blood, Thou Jhall Jhew vie the path of life, mthy fight is fulnefs of joy: there is nothing nowbetwixt me and the refurred ion, but, To-day thoufmlt be with me inparadfe.' Mr, Blair faying, lhallI praife the Lord for all the mercies he has doneand is to do for you ? He anfwered, ‘ Oh ! for awell tuned harp.’ To his child, he faid, ‘ I haveagain left yon upon the Lord : it may be, you willtell this to others, that the lines are fallen to me inpleafant places, 1 have got a goodly heritage, I blefsthe Lord that he gave me counfel.’Thus, by five o’clock in the morning, (as hehimfelf foretold) it was faid unto him, Come uphither, and he gave up the ghoft, and the re--T/r. Ruiherfoord't Life. 2^ri'owned eagle took its flight unto the mountainsj' fpices.In the forefai-.i manner died the famous Mr, .iutnerfoord, who may iuftlybe accounted amonge fuffierers. of that time ; for furely lie was akrtyr both in his own defigrt and refolution, and,jr the deiign and determination of men. Fewijen e^er ran fo long a race without cetTation, fo!n(tantly, fo unweariedly, and fo unbfarneably.,vo things (rarely to \>e foand in one man) wereiinent in. him, viz. a quick invention and founddgement, and thefe accompained with a homely,t clear exprefflon, and graceful elocution ; foat fuch as knew7 him bed, were in a flrait whe-;zr to admire him mod for his penetrating witd fublime genius in the fchools, and peculiarjfdhiefs in difputes and matters of controverfy,| his familar condefcenfion in the pnipit, wheretj| was one of the mod moving and afFe&ionateearners in his time, or perhaps in any age of thenrch.—To fum up all in one word. He feemsi be one of the mod refplendent lights that everpfe in this horizon.In all his writmgs, he breathes the true fpirit of;!,igion, but in his every way admirable letters, heijtrris to have outdone himfelf, as well as every'My elfe. which although jeded on by the pro-jie wits of this age,.becaufe of feme homely andmiliar expredions in them, it mud be owned, by:| who have any reli(h for true piety, that theyilntainfuch fublime flights of devotion, that they: jfid at once ravidi and edify every lober, ferious,jljp underdanding reader.(Among the poflhumous works of the laboriousr. Rutherfoord, are, his letters; the trial and tri-nnh of faith.; Chrift’s dying and drawing of fin¬es, rdic ; and a difeourfe on prayer; all in ofla-• A difeourfe on the covenant ; on liberty of24 Afr. RutherfoorcTs Life.conference; a furvey of fpirkuai antichrift; afinjjvey of antinomianifm ; antichrift floimed ; and fd!veral other controverted pieces, fuch as Lex Realthe due right of church - government; the divir],right of church-government; and a peaceable pltj ifor prefbytery ; are for the moll part in quarto,d]1;alio his fummary of church-difcipline, and a trei1 itife on the divine influence of the Spirit. The;;are alfo a variety of his fermons in print, fomej!f]jiwhich were preached beiore both houfes of pin3iament, anr.is 1644 and 1645. He wrote a|jupon providence, but this being in Latin, is onl :in the hands of a few ; as are alfo the greater pmof his other works, being fo feldom re-publulieThere is alfo a volume of fermons, facramentdifcoiirfes, 13c. not yet publifiied.An Epitaph ok his Grave-Jlonc.What tongue ! what pen, or Jkill of menAJCa.n famous Rutherfoord commend !His learning juflly rais’d his fame.True goodnels did adorn his name.He"did cenverfe with things above.Acquainted with Emmanuel’s love.Moll orthodox he was and found,And many errors did confound.For Zion’s King, and Zion’s caufe,And Scotland’s covenanted laws,Molt conftantly he did contend,Until his time was at an end.At laft he wan to full fruitionOf that which he had feen in vifion,0Bober 9th, 1735.FINIS.W.GLASGOW,Printed by J. and JVT. Robertson, (No. r8.) SAlTMAKfl1806. wl