Melancholy ConfequencesOF TWOtorms9Beinj?, an Account cf theSHIPWRECKa PORTlDGUiiSE S 'OW, onl.er palTage Irom3UA to MADRAS, in the vear 1782 on bo.-rd)f which was DONaL!) CAMPBELL Efq; ofBarbcck,(as related in his journey to [ndia.Jand aNARRATIVE of the LOSSOF THE •ALSEW^LL Eaft*Capt. RICHARI) PIERCEi^fortunately Wrecked at liie of PURPECK,.t.oaft <i DORbLTaHlBlP^anuary 6th 1786sitompiled from the comn.umcations of the twoAhief Officers who efcaped the dreadful Cata>fuo^he. . - ‘DUNBARjnted for and Sold by G. MILLER at whofr; Shop may bei> a variety of Small Hiftorits, Seimons Stcv C1 Krirtlro tiU*Jaabails. childrens iBooks and Pictures." frHOLE-SALE and RETAIL-— v-v-1■ V-’: MELANCHOLY CONSEQUENCESOF TWO'SEA STORMS, &c.wiTyim ■!» ii| L account of the ^hipivreck of a Portuguese Snthv,. on%'htr pajjsvc from Go i to Madras—in the pear i:y related vy one of the Unjfi rcrs.|TT \vas row *hc eightenth of M.tr when w?r-jl failed from Goa. i he hemifp!;f re had bee*jr fon:e days overcatt with* clouds; fpme lightlowers of rain had fallen; an-d j. certainly did nv\!‘d to raife my (pirits, an j tree me from my oiai-i us apprchenlions, to hear that thofe circumh aaCi.licated an approaching gale of wind. 1 obierved,rreover, that the veffel was mwch too deep in th,j-iter, being greatly overloaded—that the w.-r i;*py r?fpe<yts defective, arid, as the teamen fay, ill*,bad, and in {hort very unfit to encounter aiwiod of epy violence'. I fevined, hew ever, iVl( 4 )ywld to thofe uiilted imprctRons, and dctermirufr> proceed. «u“ On the nineteenth, the fky was obfeured b)'!'immenfe fleece's of clouds, furcharged with inflarniibie matter; and in the evening^ the rain fein torrents, the firmament darkened apace, fuddeinight came on, and the horrors of extreme darknefiwere rendered ftiU more horrible be the peals Ijthunder which rent the air, and the frequent fiafes of lightning, which ferved only to thew tlhorror of our lituation, and lea\e us in increafedarknefs: mean time the wind became more violen |blowing on the .fltore; and a heavy Tea, roiledits force, united with it to make our ftate more fo|Spyahh,f‘ By^day light on the morning of the twentietthe gale had increaled to a furious ten pell; and tf!ea, peeping pace with it, ran mountain high; arlj?.« ?t «tpt invariably to the fame point, thecaptafland officers became ferioifly alarmed, and almaperfnaded that the fouth-weft mor./bon had fet i:|whlrh, if it were I'o, would render it abfolutejimipt Bible for us to weather the toaft. All thlday, however, ve kept as clofe as the violencethe weather vpuid allow us to the wind; but tfen canted her head io to leeward, that fire mamore lee than Jbead-yay; and the rigging waslilainfd with the woijc, that we had lutle hopeitt.'ping off the ff ere, unltls the wind changed,which tfiere was not now the ftnalleft prebabiii:XVrir g the night there v. as nc intermiffion of tj.ofitr. many of the/ails blew into ribbdnds; fciof the rigging was carried away, and luch ex.lions were made, that, before moining, every ftichat cv.uld pofiilily be firuck vas down upon t'd^tk.** About liven o’clock on the morning‘ 1ring of clsia( 5 )unufual noifeperrcived thath . ,ib'enty-I was alarmecj by an“bon tbe deck, an 1 running up^cry rc. » ;ning fail in the vvetTel, the fore failone excepted, w as totally can red away. The fightias horrible, and the whole vtflel prefented aj.-Tacle as dreadful to the feelings as mortifying toman pride. Fear had produced, not only all thejlpleifuefs of defpciidency, but all the mifehievous{•aks of inf'anity In one place flood the captain.Wing, J fain ping, and tearing his hair in handfulsim his head—here, fome of the crew were caffion their' knees, clafping their hands, and prav-g, with all the extravagance of horror painted int eir faces—there, others were flogging their ima~is with all their might, calling trpon them,to aliayi e florin. One of our paflengers, who was purftran Engiifh Eaft Indiaman, had got hold tfl*a cafe,ttle of rum, and with an air of diftra£l?on andI'L'p difpair imprinted in his face, was ftalking a-Et in his fliirt. i perceived him to be pn theit of ferving it about, in large tumblers, to theundifmayed people; and well convinced, that,alfar from alleviating, it would tharpen thehorrprsrjtheir mind, I went forward, and with much di*lilty prevented him' -iiaVing a'ccomnliihed this point, I applied my-to the captain, and endeavoured to bring himk (if pofflole) to his recolledlion, and to a feme-hat he owed to his duty as a commander,'s;ndhis dignity {is a man; i exhorted him to enepu-e the failurs by his examply.; and Arove.to railefpirks, by faying that the llorm did not 4poeirie by any means fo terrible 'as fottre i hadTelor *eneuced.( While 1 was thus employed, v/e fhippesi.3 feqthe (larboard fide, which 1 really thought would'c fent us down. The ve'flH feetned to fink be.r“...•Dfh- its weight*, fhivered, aVsd rerpained tnotiof' it was a moment cf critical vufprnfe: 'fancyiiwade roe think I ft it her gradu^Uy drfccndilirig—I gave mstfrlf np a? gcne^ and lurntf^ ned awluy fortitude to bear approaching death with b.-ataming roardiocd." Jd’l at -this crifis, the w^tec, .which rn'lifi 1with incredible forie though a'l parts of the vcflcijj!tereught out fixating, and nearly iiiflbcaud, anc®after i-.ngiitli paju-nger? who was endeavouring tiltalte a little repofe in a fmall cabin boarded off fro.ijthe deck: he was a very (lout young man, and fulof true fpirit. Finding that the veiiel was not, as]had thought, going immediately down, he jointme in exhorting the captain to his duty: we pe■fyaded him to throw the guns overboard, as wella number of trunks and packages with which t!veffcl tiaa much encumbered; and with home liuexertion, we got the pumps let a going.”The name of the Engldh pafibuger juft merit lored was Hall. He was a‘ voune man of a meft am]Sib! e difpofi’.ioi, and v/ich it peff^ffed ali that mapll is■l ira tha* g.ves prefence of mind in exigences e|id«:ng?r He and Capt. Campbell having, witj:difficulty, got fome hands to ftick to ttllpnntps, flood'at the wheel,: at ones to affiff tilK’.oa, and prevent them from quitting it: and a•though hopelcfs, determined that no effort pracjjicahklTon their parts ihould be wanting to the pi*'!ffA'atjbn oftBe-vrfftd. The water, however, gaii|ed upon the pumps, notwitItffanding every effoi,aod it tvidcr.fiy cppeXt-ed that they could not keffher long above water. ,|mA'- ten o’clock the wind feemed to increafe, atjsfoounted to a dpjynrjgh't hurricane: rhe Iky wlto entirely uhfcurpdiw'ith black clouds, and the nJtJI fo .uiT- th-iC uojccls were not uifesrasi,\ i )iirom the wheel to the fnip's head. Sasn the pumpsi^ere choaked, and could no longer be worked:hen difmay feized on all—nothing hut unutterablejefpair, filent anguith, and horror, wrought up torefizy, was to be feenj not ^fihg'e foul was capa-e oi an effort to be uftful—ail feemed more de«rons to extinguilh their calamities by embracingby a painful exertion, to;atb.than willing,rold it.At about eleven o’clor k they could plainly <Uf-; nguifh a dreadful roaring noife,' rcienabling thati ' waves rolling againit rocks; but the dsrknefs ofae day, and the accompanying rains, preventedS:em from feeing any oiftance; and if it were a'ck| they might be aflua’tly dalhed to pieces on it ./‘fore they could perceive it. At twelve o'clock*jwever, the weather cleared'up a little, and bothe wind and the fea feemed to have aba'. :d: the Jry exoanfion of the profpec't round the fhip washilarating; and as thq weather grew better, and: fea Ids furious, the fenfes of the pebple return-,and the general ftupefaclion began to de*irafe.i|Th'e weather continuing to clear up, they is fametpe difeovered breakers and large rocks wifhpal||e of them: fo that it appeared they ir.uft haveted quite clofc to thtm^ and .were now fairlyimmed in be: ■ eert them and the land.]n.this very critical juncture,’’ fats our travel'j, “ the captain, entirely Contrary to my opini-adopted the dangerous' refdutron of letting goi| anchor, to bring her up wi’lo her head to thebut, though no feamay, my com man. fenfed me that tne could never ride it out, but muh:e<flly go down. The event nearly juftified mytgment; for idie had fcarcely b dur at an,hc*f be^le an enormous fea rolling oyer her, overwiiojm-lo and filled her with w .ter, 2nd every one on bo.'.r«!t.onc!uded that fhe was certair-ly finking. On th/‘inllant, a Ijafcar, with a prefence of rniud worth]an old English mariner, took an ax-% ran for wareatid cut the cable.’’andOn finding herfeif free, the vefi-l ogain fioate#d made an effort- to right hei felf; but (he %a,s all» moft completely uater-looged, and heeled tq iar;1board fo much, that the gtannel lay under watejTi'.ey then endcavohred to deer as fail as they coulfor the land, which they knew could not be at angreat difiance, though they were unable to difcov*;i; through the hazy weather: the fore-fail was locened; by great efforts in bailing, file rightedlittle, her gunnel was p,ot above tfater, and the!fcnddeci as well as they' could before the wirwhich fiill blew hard on fhore; and about t\|o’clock the land appeared at a finail dijtancehead. |f he love of life courttervails all other confider♦ ions in the mind of rnan. Tlte uncertaintywere under with regard to the fliore jpefore therwhich they had reafon to believe was part of Hyc-Alb’s, dominibas, where they fhould meet with t|mofi rigorous reatment, if not ultimate death,forgotten in the joyful hope of faving life, and tb|1. added towards the fliore in all the exulting traf• Cl 1ports of a people juft fnatched from the jawsdeath.This pdeam of happinefs, however, continlnot long-, a tremendous fea rolling after thefbroke over their flern, tore every thing before*ftrtve in the fleerage, carried aivav the rudder, fvtred fi’e wheel to, pieces, and tore up the v [ring-bolts' of the deck—conveyed the men who flclat u.e wheel forward, and fivept them overboafCaptain- Campbell was Handing, a‘ the time, nil■■jjggg( y )I [wheel, ind forttinactly had hold 6f the taftarel,£ ich enabled him to refift in ptrt the weight 6f* • wave, he wus, however, fwept off his feet,II daflied againft the tnain-maft. The jerk froml;i taffarel, which he held very tenacioufly, feem-k as it it would have diflocated his arms: it broke,p ever the impetus of his motion, and in all pro-!. ility laved him from being dallied to pieces a-I;|nft the mail.1 ‘ 1'floundered about,” fays he, ** in the watertiihe foot of the maft, till at length I got on myi!;, and feized a rope, which l held in a ftate of'at etnbarrlTment, dubious what 1 (hould do tojiricate mylelf. At this inftant I perceived that1. Hall had got upon the capftern, and was wav-I his hand to me to follow his example: this 1bed to do, though it was an enterprife of fomei. and difficulty; for, if I loft the hold I had, Allle motion of the vcffd, or a full wave, wouldjpinly carry me overboard. * I made a bold pufh,aever, and fortunately accomplilhed it. Hay-St attained this Ration, 1 could the better forvey'.'wreck,land faw that the water was nearly brea!’-ih on the quafttr deck.(for the veffel was deep-ijlfted); and I perceived the unfortunate Engiiilitifer ftanding where the'water was moft thallovv,f v arching with patient expe-ffatiou its fifing*I awaiting death: I called to him to cbtrfe to us,1 he ffiook his head in difpair, and faid, in a la*fUabic tone, “ it is all p-.er with us! God havefey upon us!”—then ieated himftdf with Ceem-ccnipofure on a chair whi h happened to be1 ing about in the wreck of the defk, and in aminutes ?fterwards was waffied into the few\g with it, where he was fpeediiy rdeafed fions. ate* ten thoufand times worle than death,j ‘ During tids univtrfal wreck of thing?, fh'c ho *( I® )ror I was in could not prevent me from cbfervinja very curious ci.v.umftanre, which at any oth«rt -time weu d have excited laughter, though nowproduced no other emotion than lurprife. We had«i:pened to he in part laden with mangoes, of whid tthe ifland of Goa is known to prodme the fineft jtjpf:the worlds feme of them lay in baikets on the poea little black hoy, in the moment of greateft datger, had got feated by them, devouring them vccioufly, and .crying all the time moft bitterly at tlhorrors of his fituation!“The veil'd hoa- get completely water-and Mr. Hall and I were employed in Forming coifje&ural cal- ulatioos how many minutes ihe cou Ikeep above • rer, end confoling one another on tM(unfortunate circumftances ur.drr which we met#:lamenting that fate had thus'brcoght us acquaintsonly to make uc witnefTes of each other’s n.ilerjand then to fee one anodrtr no more.<f t':$ the larboard i;de of the veil'd was e;radiialfgoing down, the deck, and of courfe the capiterfbe ams too nearly perpendicular for us to ccntimjon it: we therefore forfaw the neceflity of quittirlit, and got the Prarboard tide, holding faft 11,the gunxiel, ami allowing out bodies and legs ;l-yield to the fea as it broke over us. rhus we cojl.erir.ued for Pome time: at length the feverity of t jbbour ib, entirely exhaufted our ftrength and. fpirirthat curbed hope feemod to be a fpeedy conclu.: ito oar painful death; and we began to have ferialintentio*: of leting go our hold, and yielding ol|felves up at once to the fury of the waves. |“ The vtjETel. which all this time drifted with tfcfea and wind, gradually approximated ti^e htafcand 6t length ft ruck the ground, which ter an ilfrart 'revbed our Amcd departed hopes; but |floori found that it did tiot in the fmaikit dcgal! [tier our fituaticn. Again I began ta yield to at--I f defpair—again I thought of letting go my hold,,d finking at once: it is impoffible, thetighttijen to tfcape—why, then, prolong, for a few- mi-l!!|tes^a minful exiftance that rnufi: at laft be givenI? Yet, yet, the all-fubdu':.-g.love of life fuggeft-ji||, that many thirds apparently impaffihle hadj’]1   ‘ " a. “•*“ vr* *v YJIflevering fortitude.f1 While l was employed in this tra-n pfr^<6ec,n, 1 perceived fome of the people coliefling to.her, talking, and ho ding a confultation: it int-rliatdy occurred tome, that they were d .vifiogjibe plan, for ef, aping from the vvrei k, and gettingijflhore: and, fo natural is it for man to cling to|S; fe low creature for fupport in difficult or dam c-•^is exigences, that I -propofed to i, r. Hall to jo.oJui, and take a ihare in the exe. ution of the plr-lithlr-rving to him at the fame time^ t^iat I warIp mined at all events tb-qait .the veJlcl, and tad'tjSthe. protection and guidance df a ftiperintendin,-;Ividence for the reft: '' 'if As prodigality of life is, in forr.o^afe?, the c.i| of virtue and courage—.fo there are ethers io|ch it is vic^e, iheannefs and cowardice. Trueintge is, according to the cireuiilflances unde-.Ich it is to operate, a; rigidly tenacious and v'ifri-f of life in one cafe, as k is iodiffereBt and re-||«lefs in another;- and I think it is a tje.ry ftrahpe^radiftion in the human be rt falthOugh it oftenpens), that a man who has the m.ofi onbound-!courage, Treking 'death tvan in catacn sith, fi-,all yet want the aeccfiary vefoluticn to.e exertions to.fovf his life in fcsifw^,©;-*:hs*.( t2 )danger. The unfortunate EngHfii purfef cduld nrtcoiieiD: courage fuTHcient to make an effort to fav<hiinfclf; and yet.i think it probable that he woulfTsve faced a battery of artillery, or expofed hintfclfto a piftol (hot, if occafion required, as foon aany other man. i'hu it appears at firft view: lmay not this teeming incongruity be explainedfaying, that pertouai courage and fortitude are diiferent quauties ofthe mind and body, and depenupon the exercife ol entirely different functions? ‘“ Be dvit as it may, [ argued with my (elf, in tkheight nf iuy calamitous fjtuation, upon the fubj®of fortitude and dtjeilion, ourage and cowarchouand, not'* ithhanding the feriput afpe£f of affaii!. found myldi lidening to the fugyeliions of pridj*what a paltry thino- to yield, while flreogth is StJto ftruggld Vardty herfeif had her hint, and whlfpored, “ Should I efcape by an effort of my offwhat a glorious theme of exultatio^!J, There werfI.tonfefs, trant tory images in my mind, whiffco operating with thenatura attachment to felt pifervation, made me perfjvere, and refaive to do fwhile one veitige cf hppe was left for tne minddwell on.s‘ Obfervin^r as I (aid before, the people confuling together, ami refolding to join them, I madeeffort to pjet to the lee ihroods, where they w<ftanding, or rather clinging; but before ( couldcomplilh it, 1 lolf nay hold, fell down the hatch(the gratings having been .carried away with Ilong boat), and was for (ome minutes entang;r'nt rs amori^ a heap of packages, which the viofluctuations of the water had collected on thefide. As the vcffel moved with the fe.a, andwater flowed in, the packages and I were ro’ltogether— flametinu.s one, fomethnes another jijertnofl; fo that i begun to be apprehentivi( i3 i. Jd not bf able to extricate nr.yfelf: by the mcrefta dent, however, l jvrafped fomething that lay innway, made a vigorous fpring, and gained thea ftirouds. Mr. hali who followed me, in leiz-iJthe fhrouds, was driven againfl me with Inchuence, that I could fcarcely retain rcy hold offjrigg‘ng.tf Compelled by the perilous lituation in which 1■ ld? I called out to him for God’s fake to keep? tor that I was rendered quite breathicfs andj n out: he generoufly endeavoured to make wayi me, and} in fo doing, unfortunately loft hisid, and went down under the fhip’s fide. Never,'i: tr (liall l forget my fenfations, at this melancho-Ecidcnt—[ would have given millions of worldscould iiav<- recalled the words which made hime; ir.y mind v.as wound up to the iaft pitch oft may truly Gy, that this was the moltr of all the bitter moments of my life, compar-rich which the other circumftances of the thip«siipi.k feemed lefll-ned— for I had infenfibly acqmr-lian unfual ellcem and warm attachment for fum,w;:s doubtful whether, after bemp even the in-eentoccalion of his falling, I ought to take tur-.r pains to prefrrvc my ov/u life, ylul thole ien-|ioits were palling with the rapidity of lightningtough my thoughts^ when, as much to my afto-jfnmcnt as to my jo^? [ law him borne by are-,tning wave, and tnrd vn among the very pucka-|s from which 1 had but juft bcf re with fuch la-iur and difiieuItVj extricated mvitlf. Ih the end lieloved equally Jorturlart■,, bu’, after a. mucu longerf d harder ftruggle,and after lulGiniug much morelrjr>- *,1 onee more changed my ft nor., ?.’d madey way to the poop, where I found richerioicr flidtercd—i earnefily wilhed Mr. halt to uewith me, whatever might be my ultimate fut®,and beckoned him to come near me; but he oifijar.f , ered by (baking his head, in tr feeble, defpoi®)..ing manner—(faring at the fame time wild'y abahim: even his fpirit was fuhdoed; and defpajr,hperceived^ had begun to take poffeSion of his mir“ Being a little more at cafe in my new ftatiithan I had been before, I had more time to deli’Jrate, and more power to judge, I recoileded, th|according to the courle of time, the day wasgone,and the night quickly approaching; I reflcied, that for aay enterprize whatever day wns muipreferable to night; and above all I confidered, til• the veftel coqld not hold long toge-her—1 tiiercioijthought, that the be ft mode I could adopt woqbe, to take to the water with the firii buoyant tbiI con'd fee; and, as the wind and water both feerto run to the (bore, to take my chance in thatcf reaching; it. In pm fuance of this refolution,| .tore off my (hirt, ^avirjg before that thrown of flother parts of my/drcfs—I looked at my ikeve bo.|f'hs, in which \vvs At the hair of rny departed civdien—.’.nd, by an involuntary atft of the imaginption, afked rayfe f the qneftion, <4 Shall i. be happjenough' to meet them where I*an new aboutgof—Shail thole dear laft remiiss, too, be comprey to the devewrir.'* deep?”—In that ioftant, re|(bn, fufpended by the horrors sf the feene, gaviway to inilintfi:. and. [ t olled mv fbirt up, -.ind vercarefully thruft.it into a hole between decks, witthe wild' hopes that' the ffeeve.buttons might yecfcape mitouehed. Watching my opportunity,-fa. a lag of wood ftoatiug near the veiTci, aiKwavio^uu.v hand to Mr. Hall as a laft adieu, -juinf,e i after it Here, again, l was doomed to aggrtfated :r»rafV*ps—l had fcarcely touched the lawhen a g/cat fta (hatched it fr^m my hold: ftiii( *5 )9 ime near me, I grafpedat it ineffe£luaUy, till atit was completely carried away, but not befored cut 3nd battered and bruifed me in feverals, and in a manner that at any other time LId have thought dreadful.Death • feemed inevitable; amd all that occur»if to me now to do, was to accelerate it, and getijof its pangs as' fpeedily as poffible; for, thoughlew ho w to fwitn; the tremendous furf renderedfjr.ming ufelds, and all hope from it would havei ridiculous. I therefore began to {wallow ash water as poiTible; yet, ftiil riling by theant principle of the waves to the lurfice, mytaer th-ughts bagan to recur; and what her ?'tthat, of natural inftinct, which furvived theptwary itrpfelTions of dejpair, I know not; butdeavoured to fwirn, v/hich I had not done long,tin I again-difeovered tlie log of wood I had loftrting near me, and with fomexdifficulty caughtaardly had it been ?.n inftant in my hands,In, by the fame unlucky means ! loft it again, [often heard i! {’aid in Scotland, that if a manthrow himfelf • fiat on ids hack in the water,Juke ftraight and ftkT, and fuft'tr himfeif fo !mfcthe w-ater gets into his ears, he wil! continue tofo for ever: this or curred t« me now, and I de¬nned. to^try the experiment; fo I t; rsw myfclfry back in the manner I have ce fori bed, and-Imvfelf to the difpofal ©f Providence;^**;- was it, before [ found the truth ot the far,ihg_»_'oV Tted with hardly an effort, and began ftff^iuc. nrft: to conceive fomething like hopes of prefei-vatiot?,After lying in tljismanner, (.ommittcr to therction of the tides, 1 focn {aw the vrft'-h vwif wa? at a coolidetible diftance b idr. >>>-,rlieft hope.began to pfav about my ht-nt,. ,.<ui10tittered, with a thoufaud. gay fancies m nwId; 1 began to form the iavourablc tonclVdon,V. 1° Ithat the tide was carrying me rapidly to land fithe vefiel, and that I Ihtmld foon once more toutterra firma.“ This expeftation was a cor Jial that revivedexhaufted fpirits: I took courage, and left my!tftiil to the l^me all-directing Power tim hadtherto prtferved me, fcarcely doubting that I thofocm reach the land. Nor was T ndftaken; for,a fhort time more, without effort or exer.ion, ajwithout once turning from ofTmy back, l fotilmyfelf ftrike againft the Tandy beach. Overjoyto the higheft pitch of tranfport at my provideal deliverance, l made a eonvuifive fpring, and rup a little diftance on the fhorej but wuvfo wand worn do^n by fatigue, and fo >unable to cimy itomach of the fait water with which itloaded, that I fuddcbly grew deadly fick, andprchended that 1 had only exchanged one death fr,another; and in a minute or two fainted away."’Campbili’s overland Jounis]|i;iujia4Iruiia, Page 159—176.Narrative of the Lofs of the Halfovd, Eifl In cl tenon ihecc ft of Dorfeffiirc, January if 6.THE Haifewell £aft-!ndiamen, of 758 tons biiithen, commanded by Richard Tierce Efjfailed through the Downs on bunday the ill of Jnnary, and the next morning being a broijof Durmolc, it fell calm.Monday the of January, at three in t!\e afte:noon, a breeze fprung up from the South. wh< 1'ithey ran In fhore to land the pilot, but very thi; ■weather coming on in the evening, and the wkbahiiug. at nine in the evening they were obliged?anci.or.pn eighteen fatho. i water, furled .their tJ'fails, but could nof fur i their cour.es, the l»ow f}iiua-tidtk, and,freezing as it fell.''(day the ^J. at four in the morn’mn;, a; gale came on from Eafl-Nore-Eaf!, am! theiriving, they were obliged to cut their cables,un off to fea. At hoon, they fpohe with ajbound to Dublin, and having put their pilotard her, bore down Channel immediately. Atin the evenftig, the indfrefheningandcom*the 8 )uth\v<y d, they reefed fu h fails as wered nec'ffary. At ten at ni'ht it blew a violentIf)f wind at Smith, and they were obliged tof a prefs of fail to keep the Slip off fnore, iniji'; which the haw(e plugs, which according to aimprovement were put infide, were wafhed in,t he hawfe bags wafhed away, in confequence of.1 p they lidpptd a large quantity of w'ater on theleek.i founding the well, and finding the fh;p hadtg a leak, and had five {eet water in her hold,clued the main top fail up, hauiecl upthe main,cd immediately endeavoured to furl both,mould not efkft it—AH the pumps were fed tojl on difeovering the leak.i'ledocfJay the 4th, at two in the morning, theyEivoured to wear the Ihip, but without luccefs,udging it neceilary to cut away the mizen-it was immediately done, and a lecond attemptt to wear the fliip, which iucceeded no betterthe former; and the flap having now fevenvater in her hold, and gaining faft on theos, it was thought expedient** for the'prtft-.r-n of the fhip, to cut away the nuimtiadf, Toeppearing to be in immediate danger oEfouh-g-ten in the morning the wind abated confider-and the fhip labouring extremely, rolled tfietop-mart over on the larboard tide, in the fall,reck went through the fore-fail, and tore it to|r;$1^' friece?. A* eleven ir. the forenoon, the .windto the Weft ward, and the weather clearing iBerry-head was diftinguiihable bearing Nortby Jhaft, diftant four or five leagues; they ^iinn.ediately bent another fore-fail, eredledmain-mart, and fet a top-gallant fill for alail5 under which fail they bore up for Port finand employed the .remainder of the d.iy in gup a jury mizen-maft.About two in the morning on Friday thethe (hip fiftil driving, and approaching very falthe fjjore, Mr. Jienry Meriton went into thedy, wbere the Captain then was, and averfation tcc-k place, Captain Pierce exprefilntreme anxiety for the prefervation of Lis beldaughters, aftd earneftly afiftng the ofiicer Icould devite any means of faving them, and carftvcrinn with great concern that he feared itbe inipcmble, but that their only chance wouiito wait fer the morning, the Captain lifted -up$hands in fiient arM dilVrefsful ejaculation.At this dreadful n.omert the tliip ftruckfueh violence as to dailt the heads of tholewere ftanding in the cuddy, againft the deckthem, tid ihe fatal blow was accompaniedihriek of hecror, which burll at one in ft ant frevery quarter ct the fhip.Mr. o eriton, t.;e officer, whom we have alr#jmenuoMeti, at this <, rilis of horror, offired tojjdcfporr'Lng crew, the bvft advice which could f(filfly he given to tnem; he recommended their c|jing ail to that fide of the fhip which lay loveaRib rocks, and (iurly to take the opportunities wif •ruigi.t then oifer of efcapiug to the there. A,}<. in - thus provided to the utmoft of his po«/,»' tbeir f-vfety, ire returned to the round-holtvthere b_, this tone ail the paffingers, and moll:I: (Hcers were affrmbltd, tbi lattsr emi4oyed inii i-r confoiatioii to the uniortunare ladtes, andl jnparaileled #nagnanimit}’, fufFerfng their co.n-i n tor t:#fair and amiable confpatRions oi' theirI nones_ to set the better*of the fen!:: o? theirIlian rer, an.-i the dread of almofl inevitable ^n-ilattpn. at this moment, vvh'-t mail be the feel-ti of a Father—of fuch. a Father as Captaine {hip flruck on the rocks at or near Seacombe,e ifland of Purbeck, between Peverel-PoiM,it. Alban’s-head, at a part of the (hore where3 iff is of a vaft height, and rifes aimofl: perpen-tr from its bafe.t at this particular {pot the cliff is excavated atoot, and prelents a cavern of ten or twelvein depth, and of breadth equal to the lengtharge (hip, the Ikies of the cavern fo nearly up¬as to be extremely difficult of accefs, the roof:jedof the ftupendoii' cliff’ arid the bottom of itd with (harp and uneven rocks, which feemve been rent from above bv fonie convulsion4ture.was at the mouth of this cavern that the uri¬nate wreck, lay (Iretched altnoft from fide tobf it, and offering her1 broadiide to the horridi.I it at the time the fhip druck k was too dark tofever toe extent of their danger; and the ex*horror of their fitunion; even Mr, Merit;, nif conceived a hope that Ihe might keep togc*till daylight, and endeavoured to clu:=r Ivsing friends, and in particular the unhappy ia-vvith this comfortable expectation, as an an-to the Captain’s enquiries, how they., went on,tat he thought of their fituation,addition to the company already in the round-^hcmfe, they had aiftnitted three black women,!two faMiers wives, who with the hulband rf oilr’lern had been permitted to come in, thouglift amen who had tumu’tuoufly dtmailued entr^to pet the lights, had been oppofed, and kept,by Mr. Rogers, the third Mate, and Mr] Brimer!fifth, fo that the numbers there were new mereto rear fifty; Cdptain pjene fitting on a chair, Iorfome other irioveabie, wdth adamrhter on eacfof him, each of whom.he alternately prnred to hi!fe&ionate bofoav. the reft ofthemelanchoiy ; iT:iiwere feated on the deck, which was fire wed mmufical ififlrttments. and the wreck of furnitltrunks,.boxes and pakages.And here alfo Mr- Meritonj having previo*cut ftveral wax candles into pieces, and lluck tup in various parts of the round-houfe,- and liglup all the glafs lanthcrns he could find, toots,feat, intending to "wait the happy dawn, that mprefent to him the means of effecting his owncape, and afford him an opportunity of giving!finance to the partners of bis danger; but obfervithat the poor ladies appealed parched and erhaied, he fetched a bafijet of oranges from fome pof the round hotife, and prevailed on fome ofthto rtfrefn themfelves by fucking a little of the juiAt this timfe they were all tolerably compofed,cept :V:i(s Manfd, *']io was in hyfteric- fits onfloor de k of the round-houfe.But on his return to the company, he perceSa conftderable alteration in the appearance of{Hip,-the tides were vifibly giving way, thefeetued to be lifting, and he difiovered other ftr;fyngMoms- that Ihe tould not hold together nrlongcf , U' therdhra attempted to go forwardlook out, lint immediately law that the fhip wasparated in tbo midd.e, and that the fore part i$( 21 )i d its portion.. and l-iy rather farther out to-,eii thef;| t -e i'ea; and in this en^.er^ency, w!Ihiotiiem might be charged with his fate, liejinej to ttizfc the prefcnt. atiw follow the ex-of the crew*, and the foldiers, who were nowig the iViip in numbers, and making theiro a Ihore, of winch , they knew not yet thersMeriton difeovered a fpar, which appearedlaid from tht* fnip’s fide to the rocks, and onl par he dcteriuined to at etnpt hfs elcape.accordingly laid him dowrn on it, and thruftif forward, but he fcon found the f'p .rhad nounication with the rock, he reached the endand then flipped off', receiving a very violentin his fall, and before he could recover hishe was walked ofl by the fur ye, in whkh herttcl l.imfelf by fwimming, till the returning’a'l.etl him againft the back part of the cavern,he hud hold of a imall projecting piece of the, but was fo benumbed, that he was on the pointijpitting it, when a feeman who had alreadyd a looting, extended his hand, and affifttd11-11 he could ‘fttuie himfelf on a little 1! t.f oflock, from which he clambered ftill higher,fe was out of the reach of the lurf.Rogers the third ixicte, remained with thetin, and the untoKunate ladies, and their com-ns, near 20 minutes after Mr. Meriton had'd the fhip.this time tl e fea was breaking in at th.* foreof the (hip, and reached as fax as the main-arid Captain Pierce gave Mr Regers a nod,jihey took a lamp, and went together into rheb gallery, and after viewing the rocks for homejl Captain Pierce .afkcd Mr. Rogers, if bej^bt there was any poffibility of lavk e the girls,Id>inHi V( ?? )nto’v^.lcb I»« replied, he feared there was new!they C'lnid only difeover the black f»ce of thetj!pem'tf.wlair rock, and not the cavern which aSjed iheiter to tbkofe who efcaped; they then ret *e^ to the rcund-houfe, and Mr. Rogers hun-jthe lamp, and Captain Pierce, v ith h‘is greaton, lat down between his two daughters, and illpled to iupprefs the parental tear which thenlrinto his^ye.The tea continuirg to break in very f-ltjM’Marus, a midlhipman, and Mr. Schutz., a pait-«^‘r, -alkt'd Mr. Rogers what they cotiid do to el||'who replied, “follow me” and they then all |j'-?into the Item gallery, and from thence by bhe||>iher upper quarter gallery upon the poop,||:whilfl they were there a very heavy fea fell on heand the round-honfe gave way. and he heardladies fltriek at intervals, as it the water had recd them, the noife of the lea at other times dretheir voices.IV r. Btimer had followed Mr. Rogers to thewhere they had remained together abc.ut fivecutes, when on the coming on of the laft menjed fea, they joinrfy feized a hen-coop,-and the I~ ~ ' to 1wave which he apprehended proved fatalof thofs who remained, beiow, happily carriedand his companion to the rock, on which they dddied wicj fuch violence as to be miferably fcruFand hurt.Mr- Rogers and Mr. Brimer both however re;cd the'cavern and fcrambled up the rock; ohrow (heives of wbi( hthey fixed themfelves, Mr. hgers got fo near to his friend Mr. Meriton as tajchange congratulations with him, but he wasvented from joining him by at kail 20 men 1|re between them, neither of whom could tlwiihoyt unmediife peril ol* his life.n ^)II cy riow found that a very contldffabls nunibyrje crew, 1'eamcn, foidiers, and lame petty < f-W were in the fame fituation with themfeivcj,lilli many who had reached the rocks below, haded, in attempting to afcend; what that fitua-;as they were {till to learn; at prefen: they hadt |d immediate death, but they were ye.t to en-"r cold, nakedncfs, wind, rain, and the per-beathg of the ipray of the lea, fora diffi alt,ions, and doubtful chance of efcape.ty very few minutes' after Mr. Rogers had gaip-•i rock, an univerfal fltriek, which ft Hi vibratesir ears, and, in which, the voice of females w*s lamentably didinguiihable, announcedeadful cataftrophe; in a few moments ail was, except the warring winds, and beating waves;eck was buried in the remorfelefs deep, andatom of her was ever after dilco\erable.'js ptrifhcd the HaJ/civcll.at an aggrava;icr> of woe was this dreadfu!,premendous blow, to the yet trembling,' andiy half faved wretches^ who were hanging!ihe iuies of the horrid cavern,ler the bittereil three hour* which ndfery everened into ages, the day broke on them; theyunu that had the country been alarmed by!|ins of diftrefs which they had continued VoIr many hours before the fliip llruck, butfrom the violence of the ftortn were unheard,itould neither be obfeyved by the people from4'1 as they were completely ingulphed in theca-wand over hung by the cliff, nor c‘d any part^ wreck remain to point out their probable placeHi!ge; below, no boat could live to ft arch thempd had it been pcfiible to have acquaintsdBvho would wifL to affitl: them, with their exaftfc)n, no ropes could be conveyed iritp the cavi-l! facilitatt their elc»pe.7V24The only pM.Tpeu which otj.re , was to treilong the tide of die cavern, to it. outward extrty. and on a ledge lean eiy as broad as a nito turn the corner, ami endeavour to dartibecthe aimed perpendicular precipice, whofe fuwas ne.*r two hundred leet from the bale.Ar.d in this defptrate effort did home fucwhilft others, trembling with terror, andflrength exhaufted by mental and bodily fat:loft their precarious looting, and penihed in ttempt.The firft men who gained thefummit of thewere the Cook, and James Thonipffn, a Quarmafter, by their own exertions they made theijs'to the land, and the moment they reached it,fered,tto the reared iioufe, and made known titUi.ri' n of their fellow fufierersThe houfe at which they hrfl arrived was Eaton the prefent habitation of Mr. Garland, tieor ament to the prepriefors of tlie Furbeck QuarlW'ho immediately got together the workmen ujhis dir edlion, and with the moft zealous and anin:|hu.i aij’.y, exerted every effort for ti e preftrvof the furviving Crew'- of tins unfortunate lb ip;were procured with all poffhlc diipatch, .and iprecaution taken that ailiftance ihould be Ipeland ettedhodly given. ; JAs rtH, day advanced, mere affnarct was oled, r.nd as t he hfe prefer ying effom of the furouit: adn ir, they crawled to the extremities rt. , ro, uod j-refented themfelvt's to their pr‘et!. ahokood prepared withthe nieapsihe I'vuatiottd 'idd permit them to exercife, tthem to the lummit.Cir 'UThjiantuit Narrative »f the hfs tfth? HalfeuCcrnptledJrmtfre communications cfitnej GjtKers, u>heefcagedt Pa^e lo~|ul