airr^gawaniofl'i am-, aui,- 3JI1 '1 .XiJI I5,it mo azo.esot^hctt ar;r -a. V^.,-. I J O >1 I M A I ,; J I V/.a3Aaf£ ajaavjalfi <0THELIFE AND PROPHECIESorMr. ALEX. FEDEX.iR. Alexander Peden, was born in theIrish of Sorn, in the sheriffdom of Ayr.fter bis course at the College, he was em-loyed for some time to be school-master,-ecentor, and session-clerk to Mr. Johnuthrie, minister of the gospel at Tarbolton.rhen he was about to enter on the ministry,^oung woman fell with child, in adultery, toservant in the house where she stayed; whene found herself to be so, she told the fatherereof, who said. I’ll run for it, and go toJand, father it upon Mr. Peden, he has morehelp you to bring it up (he having a smallritage) than I have. The same day thatwas to get his licence, she came in before3 Presbytery and said, I hear you are toence Mr. Peden, to be a minister; but do itt, for I am with child to him. He beingI4without at the time, was called in by tinmoderator ; and being questioned about it, Insaid, I am utterly surprised, I cannot speakbut let none entertain an ill thought of me, foI am utterly free of it, and God will vindicateme in his own time and way. He went homeand walked at a water-side upwards of 2-:hours, and would neither eat nor drink, busaid, I have got what I was seeking, and .will be vindicated, and that poor unhappylass will pay dear for it in her life, and wimake a dismal end ; and for this surfeit of griethat she hath given me, there shall never ohof her sex come into my bosom; and, accordingly he never married. There are varioureports of the way that he was vindicatedsome say, the time she was in child-birth, MiGuthrie, charged her to give account who wathe father of that child, and discharged thwoman to be helpful to her, until she did itsome say, that she confessed ; others, that shremained obstinate. Some of the peoplewhen I made inquiry about it in that countryside affirmed, that the Presbytery had been (all pains about it, and could get no satisfactiotthey appointed Mr. Guthrie to give a furelation of the whole before the congregatioiwhich he did ; and the same day the father (the child being present, when he heard MGuthrie begin to speak, he stood up an.desired him to halt, and said, I am the fat!5of that child, and I desired her to father it onMr. Peden, which has been a great trouble ofconscience to me; and I could not get rest tillI came to declare it. However it is certain,that after she was married, every thing wentcross to them ; and they went from place toplace, and were reduced to great poverty.At last she came to that same spot of groundwhere he stayed upwards of 24 hours, andmade away with herself!After this he was three years settled ministerat New Glenluce in Galloway ; and when hewas obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat time, to leave thatparish,he lectured uponActs xx. 17. to the end, and preached uponthe 31st verse in the forenoon, “Thereforewatch, and remember that for the space ol threeyears I ceased not to warn every one, nightand day, with tears Asserting that he haddeclared the whole council of God, and hadkept nothing back; and protested that he wasfree of the blood of all souls. And, in theafternoon he preached on the 32nd verse,“ And now, brethren, I commend you to God,and to the word of his grace, which is ableto build you up, and to give you an inheritanceamong all them that are sanctified.” Whichwas a weeping day in that kirk; the greatestpart could not contain themselves : He manytimes requested them to be silent; but theysorrowed most of all when he told them that6they should never see his face in that pulpitagain. He continued until night; and whenhe closed the pulpit-door, he knocked hard,upon it three times with his Bible, sayingthree times over, I arrest in my master’s’name, that never one enter there, but such as.come in by door, as I did. Accordingly,neither curate nor indulged minister everentered that pulpit, until after the revolution,that a Presbyterian minister opened it.While prisoner in the Bass, one sabbath¬morning being about the public worship ofGod, a young lass, about 13 or 14 years ofage, came to the chamber-door mocking withloud laughter: He said, “ Poor thing, youmock and laugh at the worship of God, butere long God shall write such a sudden,surprising judgement on thee, that shall staythy laughing, and thou shalt not escape it.”Very shortly after, she was walking uponthe rock, and there came a blast of wind andsweeped her into the sea, where she perished.'Another day walking upon the rock, somesoldiers passing by him, one of them said,“ Devil take me.” He said, “ Fy, fy, poorman, thou knowest not what thou art saying;but thou wilt repent that.” At which wordthe soldier stood astonished, and went to theguard distracted, crying aloud for Mr. Peden,saying, the devil would immediately take himaway. He came to him again, and found him7in his right mind, under deep convictions ofgreat guilt. The guard being to change, theydesired him to go to his arms: he refused,and said he would lift no arms against JesusChrist, his cause, nor persecute his people, hehad done that too long. The governor threat¬ened him with death, to-morrow about ten ofof the clock; he confidently said, three times,though he should tear all his body in pieces,he should never lift arms that way. Aboutthree days after, the governor put him out ofthe garrison, setting him ashore. He havinga wife and children, took a house in EastLothian, where he became a singular Chris¬tian. Mr. Peden told these astonishing pas¬sages to the foresaid John Cubison, andothers, who informed me.When brought from the Bass to Edin¬burgh, and sentence of banishment passedupon him, in Dec. 1678, and sixty more fel¬low-prisoners, for the same cause, to go toAmerica, never to be seen in Scotland again,under the pain of death. After this sentencewas past, he several times said that the shipvi as not yet built that should take him andthese prisoners to Virginia, or any other ofthe English plantations in America. OneJames Kay, a solid and grave Christian, be-being one of them who lives in or about theW ater of Leith, told me that Mr. Peden saidto him, “James, when your wife comes in8let me see herwhich he did. After somediscourse he called for a drink, and when hesought a blessing, he said, “ Good Lord, letnot James Kay’s wife miss her husband, tillthou return him to her in peace and safety;which we are sure will be sooner than eitherhe or she is looking for.” Accordingly, thesame day-month that he parted with her atLeith, he came home to her at the Water ofLeith.When the were on ship board at the Waterof Leith, there was a report that the enemieswere to send down thumbkins to keep themfrom rebelling; at the report of this theywere discouraged. Mr. Peden came upondeck, and said, “ Why are ye discouraged ?You need not fear, there will neither thumb-kins nor bootkins come here: lift up yourhearts and heads, for the day of your redemp¬tion draweth near: if we were once at Lon¬don we will be set at liberty.” And whensailing on the voyage, praying publicly, hesaid, “ Lord, such is the enemies hatred atthee, and malice at us for thy sake, that theywill not let us stay in the land of Scotland,to serve thee, though some of us have nothingbut the covering of thy heavens above us, andthe earth to tread upon ; but, Lord, we blessthy name, that will cut short our voyage, andfrustrate thy enemies of their wicked design,that they will not get us where they intend;1 '9ind some of us shall go richer home, than wecame from home.” James Pride, who livedin Fife, an honest man, being one of them, hesaid many times, he could assert the truth ofthis, for he came safely home; and, besidesother things, he bought two cows; and beforethat he never had one. I had these accountsboth from the foresaid James Kay and RobertPunton, a known public man, worthy of allcredit, who was also under the same sentenceand lived in the parish of Dalmeny, nearQueensferry.When they arrived at London, the skipperwho received them at Leith was to carry themno farther. The skipper who was to receivethem there, and carry them to Virginia, cameto see them, they being represented to him, asthieves, robbers, and evil-doers ; but when hefound they were all grave Christian men, ban¬ished for Presbyterian principles, he said hewould sail the sea with none such. In thisconfusion, that the one skipper would not re¬ceive them, and the other would keep themno longer, being expensive to maintain them,they were all set at liberty. Some reportedthat both skippers got compliments fromfriends at London; however, it is certainthey were all set free, without any impositionof bonds or oaths ; and friends at London,and on their way homewards through Eng¬land, shewed much kindness unto them.10That dismal day, June 22d, 1679, at Both-,well-bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, and.tied before the enemy, he was forty miles dis4tant near the border, and kept himself retireduntil the middle of the day, that some friends isaid to him, “ Sir, the people are waiting for .sermon.” He said, “Let the people go totheir prayers; for me I neither can nor will .preach any this day ; for our friends are fallen, cand tied before the enemy at Hamilton; and ,they are hanging and hashing them down, ,and their blood is running like water!”After the public murdering of these twoworthy women-martyrs, Isobel Allison andMarion Harvie, in the Grass-market of Edin¬burgh, January, 1681, he was in Galloway.A professor of some note, who had more car¬nal wit and policy than to suffer him to behonest and faithful, after reasoning upon thegrounds of their sufferings, affirmed that theywould never be reckoned among the numberof the martyrs. Mr. Peden said, after mus¬ing a litt’e, “Let alone, you will never behonoured with such a death: and for whatyou have said against these two worthy lasses,your death will be both sudden and surpris¬ing.” Which happened shortly thereafter:while standing at the fire, smoking his pipe,the man dropt down dead.In the year 1680, after the murdering ofMr. Cameron, and these worthies with him11at Airdsmoss, he was near Mauchline, in Ayr¬shire ; one Robert Brown, of Crosshouse, wholived near Newmills, and one Hugh Pinaneve,factor to the Earl of Lothian, stabled theirhorses at the house where he was, and wentto a fair in Mauchline; and in the afternoon,when they came to take away their horses,they got a drink, and in the time of it, thesaid Hugh, a wicked wretch, both in principleand practice, broke out in railing against thesufferers, particularly against Mr. Cameron.Mr. Peden being in another room, overhear¬ing all, was so grieved that he came to thechamber door, and said to the said Hugh,“ Sir, hold your peace, ere twelve o’clock thoushall know what-for a man Mr. Cameron was.God shall punish that blasphemous mouthand cursed tongue of your’s in such a manneras shall be astonishing to all that shall seeyou, and shall set you up a beacon to all rail¬ing Rabshakehs.” Robert Brown knowingMr. Peden, hasted to his horse, being per¬suaded that Mr. Peden’s words would not fallto the ground, and fearing that some mischiefmight befall him for being in the said Hugh’scompany, he rode hard home. Robert wentto his own house, and Hugh to the Earl’shouse, and casting oft' his boots, he was struckwith such a sickness and pain through hisbody, with his mouth so wide, and his tonguehanging so far out, in a fearful manner, that'12they sent for the said Robert; who being usedto take blood, he got some blood off him, butall in vain, he died that night. The saidRobert, an old man, told me this passage;when in prison together.In the year 1682, while marrying two pairof folks, he said to the one, “ Stand by, I willnot marry you this day.” The bridegroomwas anxious to know the reason: after enquir¬ing privately, he said, “You will thank mefor this afterwards, and think yourself wellquat of her, for she is with child to anotherwife’s husband : which was a matter of fact,as time afterwards discovered.Shortly after that sad stroke at Bothwell,he went to Ireland, but did not stay long atthat time. In his travels through Gallowayhe came to a house, and looking in the good-man’s face, he said, “ They call you an honestman, but if you be so you do not look like it,you will not long keep that name, but willdiscover yourself to be what you are.” Andshortly after he was made to flee for sheep¬stealing. In that short time he was in Ire¬land, the Governor required of all Presbyteri¬an ministers that were in Ireland, that theyshould give it under their hand, that they hadno accession to the late rebellion at Bothwell-bridge, in Scotland, and that they did notapprove of it; which the most part did ; andsent Mr. Thomas Gowans, a Scotsman, and13one Mr. Paton, from the north of Ireland toDublin, to present it to the Lord-Lieutenant:the which when Mr. Peden heard, he said,“ Mr. Gowans and his brother Mr. Paton aresent and gone the devil’s errand, but God willarrest them by the gate.” And, accordingly,Mr. Gowans, by the way, was struck with asore sickness, and Mr. Paton fell from hishorse and broke or crushed his leg; and bothof them were detained beyond expectation.I had this account from some worthy Chris¬tians when I was in Ireland.In the year 1682, he married John Brownin Kyle, at his own house in Priesthall, thatsingular Christian, upon Marion Weir. Aftermarriage he said to the bride, “ Marion, youhave got a good man to be your husband, butyou will not enjoy him long : prize his com¬pany, and keep linen by you for his winding-sheet, for you will need it when you are notlooking for it, and it will be a bloody one.”This came sadly to pass in the beginning ofMay, 1685, as afterwards shall appear.After this, in the year 1682, he went to Ire¬land again, and came to the house of WilliamSteel, in Glenwharry, in the county of An¬trim ; he enquired at Mrs. Steel if she wanteda servant for threshing victual ? She said theydid, and enquired what his wages were a-day,or week. He said the common rate was acommon rule; to which she assented. At14night he was put to bed in the barn, with theservant-lad; and that night he spent in prayerand groaning, up and down the barn. Onthe morrow he threshed victual with the lad,and the next night he spent the same way.The second day, in the morning, the lad saidto his mistress, “ This man sleeps none, butgroans and prays all night: I get no sleep forhim. He threshes very well, and is not spar¬ing of himself, though I think he has notbeen used with it, for he can do nothing tothe bottling and ordering of the barn; andwhen I put the barn in order he goes to sucha place, and there he prays for the afflictedChurch of Scotland, and names so many inthe furnace. He wrought the second day,and his mistress watched and overheard himpraying, as the lad had said. At night shedesired her husband to enquire if he was aminister, which he did, and desired him to befree with him, and he should not only be noenemy to him but a friend. Mr. Peden saidhe was not ashamed of his office; and gavean account of his circumstances. He was nomore set to work, nor to lie with the lad; andhe staid a considerable time in that place, andwas a blessed instrument in the conversion ofsome, and civilizing of others, though thatplace was noted for a wild rude people, andthe fruit of his labour appears unto this day.There was a servant-lass in that house, that15he could not look upon but with frowns ; andsometimes when at family-worship, he said,pointing to her with a frowning countenance,“ You come from the barn and from the byrereeking in your lusts, and sit down amongus; we do not want you, nor none such.”At last he said to William Steel and his wife,“ Put that unhappy lass from your house, forshe will be a stain to your family, for she iswith child, and will murder it, and will bepunished for the same.” Which accordinglycame to pass, and she was burnt at Craig-Fergus, which is the punishment of murder¬ers of children there. I had this accountfrom John Muirhead, who staid much in thathouse, and other Christian people, when inIreland.On the second of February, 1685, he wasin the house of one Mr. Vernor, at night, andJohn Kilpatrick, Mrs. Vernon’s father, a veryold worthy Christian ; he said to him, “John,the world may well want you and me.” Johnsaid, “ Sir, I have been very fruitless and use¬less all my days, and the world may wellwant me, but your death will be a great loss.”“ Well, John,” said he, “ you and I shall beboth in heaven shortly, but though you bemuch older than I, my soul will get the fore¬start of your’s, for I will be first in heaven :but your body will get the advantage of mine,for ye will get rest in your grave until the16resurrection; but for me, I must go to thebloody land (this was his ordinary way ofspeaking, bloody or sinful land, when hespoke of Scotland) and die there; and theenemies out of their wickedness, will lift mycorpse unto another place; but I am very in¬different, John, for I know my body shall lieamong the dust of the martyrs ; and thoughthey should take my old bones and makewhistles of them, they will all be gatheredtogether in the morning of the ressurection ;and then, John, you and I, and all that willbe found having on Christ’s righteousness,will get day-about with them, and give ourhearty assent to their eternal damnation.”The same night, after this discourse, whileabout family worship, about ten or eleveno’clock, explaining the portion of Scripturehe read, he suddenly hearkened, and said,“ What’s this I hear ?” And hearkened againa little, and clapped his hands and said, “ Ihear a dead shot at the throne of Britain ! Lethim go yonder, he has been a black sight tothese lands, especially to poor Scotland: weare all quit of him; there has been many awasted prayer wared on him.” And it wasconcluded by all, the same night that unhappyman Charles II. died. I had this accountfrom John Muirhead, and others who werepresent and confirmed in the truth of it, bysome worthy Christians, when I was in Ireland.17There were three lads murdered at Wig-ton, and at the same time he was prayingi at Craigmyne, many miles distant; he criedout, “ There is a bloody sacrifice put up thisday at Wigton.” These were the lads ofKirkeily ; and those who lived near knew notof it till it was past. I had this account fromWilliam M‘Dougal. an old man in Ferrytown,near Wigton, worthy of credit, who was pre¬sent.After this, in Auchengrooch-muirs, inNithsdale, Captain John Mathison and othersbeing with him, they were alarmed that theenemies were coming fast upon them; theydesined to put him in some hole, and coverhim with heather, he not being able to runhard by reason of his age; he desired them toforbear a little until he prayed, then he said,“ Lord, we are ever needing at thy hand; andif we had not thy command to call on thee inthe day of trouble, and thy promise ofanswering us in the day of our distress, wei wot not what would become of us: If thouI hast any more work for us in the world, allowus the lap of thy cloak this day again; and ifthis be the day of our going off the stage, letus win honestly off, and comfortably through,and our souls will sing forth thy praisesthrough eternity, for what thou hast done tous and for us.” When ended, he ran alone alittle, and came quickly back, saying, “ Lads,!18the bitterness of this blast is over; we will beno more troubled with them to-day.” Footand horse came the length of Andrew Clark’s,in Achengrooch, where they were coveredwith a dark mist! When they saw it theyroared like fleshly devils, and cried out, ‘‘Thereis the confounded mist again! we cannot getthese damned whigs pursued for it.” I hadthis account from the said Captain JohnMathison.About this time he was in a house in theshire of Ayr, (James Nisbet, yet living in theCastle of Edinburgh, can bear witness to the itruth of this), and one night he was standingbefore the fire, where he uttered some impre-cations upon the cursed intelligencers, whohad told the enemy that he was come out ofIreland. When James took him to the placewhere he w7as to rest a little, James said, “ Theservants took notice of your imprecationsupon the intelligencers.” He said, “Ye wdllknow to-morrowr, about nine o’clock, what .ground I have for it: I wish thy head may bepreserved, for it will be in danger for me; Iwill take my own time and be gone from thishouse.” Some time that night he went to adesert place, and darned himself in a moss-hag;the next morning James was going with theharrows, and about eight of the clock therewas a troop of the enemies surrounding thehouse; when James saw them he ran for it,19and they pursued him hard, till he wan to amoss, where they could pursue him no fur¬ther with horses; they then fired upon him,and he having knots upon his hair, on eachside of his head, one of their bullets tookaway one of the knots. He ran where Mr.Peden was, who said, “ Oh ! Jamie, Jamie, I] am glad your head is safe, for I knew itI would be in danger.” He took his knife and» cut away the other knot.About this time he and James Wilson, inDouglas, a singularly known man to many,was at Airdsmoss; and being together sometime without speaking, as Mr. Peden’s ordi¬nary was, when there was any extraordinarything in his head, they came to Mr. Cameron’sgrave, where he and the other eight wereburied. After sitting some time on the grave,he gave James a clap on the shoulder withhis heavy hand, and said, “ I am going to tellyou a strange tale!” James said, “ I am will¬ing to hear it.” He said, “ This is a strangeday, both of sinning and suffering! (as indeedit was, it being killing-time, wherein manyfainted, and could not endure the scorchingheat of the persecution; but to some theLord, in his love, gave gourds of strength,support and comfort, that keeped them fromfainting:) “ But,” said he, “ though it be adreadful day, it will not last long : this per-20secution will be stopt within these few years,but I will not see it; and ye are all longingand praying for that day, but when it comes .ye will not crack so much of it as ye trow.And ye are a vain man James, and manyothers, with your bits of paper and drops ofblood; but when that day comes, there willbe a bike of indulged, lukewarm ministersfrom Holland, England, and Ireland, togetherwith a bike of them at home, and some youngthings that know nothing; and they will allhyve together in a General Assembly and thered hands with blood, and the black handsof defection, will be taken by the hand, andthe hand given them by our ministers; andye will not ken who has been the persecutor,complier, or sufferer; and your bits of paperand drops of blood will be shut to the door,and never a word more of them; and ye andthe like of you will get their backside.” Hegive him another sore clap upon the shoulder,saying, “ Keep mind of this, James Wilson,for, as the Lord lives, it will surely come topass.” James Wilson told me this shortlythereafter, and repeated it again the nextGeneral Assembly, when he and I, and manyothers, saw the accomplishment of this, inevery particular, to our great grief.In the begining of May, 1685, he came tothe house of John Brown and Marion Weirwhom he married before he went to Ireland,21where he stayed all night; and, in the morn¬ing, when he took farewell, he came out atthe door, saying to himself, “ Poor woman, afearful morning!” twice over: “ A dark mistymorning !” The next morning, between fiveand six, the said John Brown having goneabout the worship of God in his family, wasgoing with a spade in his hand, to make readysome peat ground; the mist being very dark,he knew not until cruel and bloody Claver-house compassed him with three troops ofhorse, and brought him to his house, andthere examined him ; who, though he was aman of stammering speech, yet answered himdistinctly and soundly; which made Claver-house to ask those whom he had taken to behis guides through the muirs, if ever theyheard him preach? They answered, “No,no, he was never a preacher.” He said, “Ifhe has never preached, meikle he has prayedin his time.” He said to John, “Go to yourprayers, for you shall immediately die.” Whenhe was praying, Claverhouse interrupted himthree times : One time that he stopt him, hewas pleading that the Lord would spare aremnant, and not make a full end in the dayof his anger; Claverhouse said, “ I gave youtime to pray, and ye are begun to preach.”He turned upon his knees, and said, “ Sir,you know neither the nature of praying norpreaching, that calls this preaching; then con-22tinned without confusion. When ended, Cla-verhouse said, “ Take good-night of your wifeand children.” His wife standing by, withher child in her arms, that she had broughtforth to him, and another child of his firstwife’s he came to her and said, “ Now, Marion,the day is come that I told you would come,when I spake first to you of marrying me.”She said, “Indeed, John, I can willinglypart with you.” Then he said, “ That is all Idesire, I have no more to do but die.” Hekissed his wife and bairns, and wished pur¬chased and promised blessings to be multipliedupon them, and his blessing. Claverhouseordered six soldiers to shoot, and the mostpart of the bullets came upon his head, whichscattered his brains upon the ground. Cla¬verhouse said to his wife, “ What thinkestthou of thy husband now, woman ?” She said,“ I thought ever much of him, and now asmuhh as ever.” He said, “ It were merejustice to lay thee beside him.” She said,“ If ye were permitted, I doubt not yourcruelty wrould go that length : But how willyou answer for this morning’s work?” Hesaid, “To man I can be answerable, and forGod, I will take him in my own hand !” Cla¬verhouse mounted his horse and marched, andleft her with the dead corpse of her husbandlying there. She set the bairn on the ground,and gathered up his brains, and tied up his23head, and straighted his body, and coveredhim with her plaid, and sat down and weptover him. His corpse was buried at the endof his house where he was slain, with this in¬scription on his grave :—“ On earth’s cold bed the dusty part here lies,Of one who did the earth as dust despise :Here, in this place, from earth took his departure ;Now he has got the garland of a martyr.”MrPeden, before his death, said, “Ye shallbe where I shall be buried at last, but Idischarge you all to lift my corpse again. Atlast, one morning early he came to the door,and left his cave; his brother’s wife saidWhere are you going, the enemy will beicre ?” He said, “ I know that.” “ Alas,Sir,” says she, “ what will become of you ?pou must go back to the cave again.” Hesaid, “ I have done with that, for it is dis¬covered : But there is no matter, for withinForty-eight hours, I will be beyond the reachDf all the devil’s temptations, and his instru-nents, in hell or on the earth ; and they shall;rouble me no more.” About three hoursifter he entered the house, the enemy camemd found him not in the cave; then theyicarched the barn narrowly, casting the un-;hreshen corn; and searched the house, stabbinghe beds, but entered not into the place wherele lay.24Within forty-eight hours he died, January28th, 1680, being past sixty years and wasburied in the Laird of AfHect’s Isle. Theenemies got notice of his death and burial,and sent a troop of dragoons, who lifted hiscorpse and carried him to Cumnock gallows- ifoot, and buried him there (after being fortydays in the grave) beside others. His friendsthereafter laid a grave-stone above him, withthis inscription;HERE EIESMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,A Faithful Minister of the Gospel,at Glenluce,Who departed this life January 28, 1686,And was raised after six weeksOut of his Grave,And buried here out of contempt.After this that troop of dragoons came toquarter in the parish of Cambusnethen : Twoof them were quartered in the house of JamesGray, my acquaintance; they being frighted jin their sleep, started up, and clapped their,hands, crying, “ Peden, Peden!” These two-dragoons affirmed, that out of their curiosity ,they opened his coffin, to see his corpse, and|yet he had no smell, though he had been fortydays dead.FINIS.