A NEW HISTORICAL5CATECHISM;CONTAININGWitty Answers to several Questions of many wonderfulMatters in Ancient History.\ I. Shewing the light ofthe Heathen world.II. The confession and de¬cease of oracles.HI. Miracles that happenedat our Saviour’stnrth., IV. The usurpation of He¬rod -to the kingdom ofJudea by treachery.V. The many great andcruel murders commit¬ted by him, togetherwith the way and man¬ner of murdering thechildren of Bethlehem.VI. An account of his mi-| serable death, with themiserable deaths of hissuccessors.VH. The death of Herodiasand her dancing daugh-||VHI. The death of PontiusPilate, and Nero thelioman Emperor.IX. The destruction of Jeru-' salem, with the numberof those that died in thesiege: As likewise, thenumber of those that wassent to be put to death asthe Emperor pleased forhis own diversion.X. Josephus, and the Romanaccount of our Saviour.XI. The life and death ofSimon Magus.XII. A remarkable story ofthe Great Mogul and adivining Ape: with awonderful, apparitionthat happened at Ma¬homet’s. tomb.XIII. A remarkable relationof Seven Sleepers, whoslept above two hundredyears : with many otherthings very worthy ofobservation.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1839.A NEWHISTORICAL CATECHISM.I Perceive you have had an opportunity ofreading ancient histories.Q. Give an account, if the heathen world hadany .glimmering light of a Redeemer, as wasgiven to Abraham and his offspring.A. As history shows, they had a very clearlight, for Adam (who had converse with God andwith his angels) lived above 240 years afterMethusalem was born, and Methusalem livedabove 500 after Noah was born, and Noah livedabout 60 years after Abraham was born, whomight converse together, and in the days ofAbraham lived Zoroastes, who was a heathen,or Gentile, yet a very learned man, and mightconverse with Abraham and Noah, and others ofthe mpst ancient fathers ; for the Romans hadtheir learning from the Egyptians, and theEgyptians from the Chaldeans, as the Jewsfrom Moses, and Moses from the Patriarchs, &c.Q. In what age of the world did he live ?A. Job lived the second age of the world, andwas in the days of Abraham, Zoroastes, and ashis story relates, was a famous instance of pa¬tience, holiness, and virtue.Q. But does history relate of no prophet thatwas amongst the heathen or Gentile world, thatdid prophesy of a Redeemer, among the Jews ?A. Yes, there is evident intimation in thewritings of Zoroastes, concerning the Son of God,4and Hermes Trismogistes, who was his scholar,had manifest understanding of the second personof the Trinity, and calls him the first begottenSon of God, his only Son, his eternal, immuta¬ble, and incorruptible Son. And after him,Orpheus, Hesiod, and the Platonists, who wereGrecians, writ to the same purpose; and besidesthose, there arose ten women, who, having thespirit of prophecy, and were called Sybils, utter¬ed many speeches concerning Christ, of his birth,and life, of his miracles, death, suffering and re¬surrection, which they spoke in more plain termsthan those of the Jews, but they understoodthem not.Q. Had not the heathen world many oracles,that spoke and told them events, that were tohappen ?A. The priest of Apollo, inquiring of hisoracle concerning God, and the true religion,had this answer in Greek, “ O thou unhappypriest, why dost thou ask me of God, who isfather of all things, that most renowned King,and his dear and only Son, and the Spirit thatcontaineth all, will shortly compel me to leavethis habitation, and utterno more oracles.”Q. What answer had Augustus Caesar when hewent to inquire of the oracle of Apollo, at Del-phos, who should be his successor, and whatshould happen after his death ?A. The oracle was long silent, and the Emperorcontinued to offer many sacrifices; at lengthApollo, as if enforced, said, “ An Hebrew child,which ruleth over all gods, commands me to leavethis habitation, and to return forthwith to hell.”Q. Were there not many remarkable prodigiesthat happened about the time find birth of ourSaviour ?A. Yes; it is recorded by Eusebius andothers, that at his birth a fountain of pure oilbroke in at a public inn at Rome, and run freelya whole day, and that at noon in a fair day, acircle was seen about the sun as resplendent asthe sun itself, and Comester in his scholastic his¬tory affirms, that on the day of Christ’s birth, atemple at Rome, dedicated to the goddess Pax,fell to the ground, which was told by the oracleof Apollo, that it should continue till a virginshould bring forth a child, which they judgedimpossible, and that it should.stand for ever.And likewise Lucas searching in ancient Chro¬nicles of the history of Spain, found there re¬corded, that the same night wherein our Saviourwas born, there appeared in Spain at midnight,a cloud with so great a light, that it seemed likemid-day.Q. Were not theseremarkable prodigies, whichthen happened, applied by some learned personsto Augustur Caesar, who then reigned prosper¬ously ?A. There were so, as Josephus testifies, butthe more divinely inspired, interpreted it to sig¬nify him, who Isaiah prophesied should have thegovernment upon his shoulders, even the Saviourof the world.Q. Did not the Senate of Rome offer to bestowthe title of our Lord upon Augustus Caesar?A. Octavius Caesar, sirnamed Augustus,after his civil wars, wherein he was engagedwith many other troubles and much bloodshed,was advanced to the imperial throne, and thatliberty, peace, and security were then established,the Senate offered to crown him with the title ofPrince of Peace, which some write he denied thathonour, and unknowingly said, that a greaterLord than he was to come into the world, towhom that title more justly belonged.Q. Was not Josephus living in our Saviour’sdays?A. He was not then born in our Saviour’sdays, but was born five years after Christ’s pas¬sion, and was thirty-five years old at the time ofthe destruction of Jerusalem.Q. Was Herod of the seed or blood royal ofthe tribe of Judah ?A. Herod was a man of Idumea, and beingrich, politic, and ambitious, and very comely,every way qualified for a courtier, that Hyrcan-nus, king of Judea, of the house of David,gave to him his daughter in marriage, and madehim governor in Galilee; and when Hyrcannuswas taken prisoner by the Parthians and carriedto that country, Herod fl.ed to Rome, and thereby the favour of Mark Anthony obtained thekingdom of Judea, though his father-in-law wasstill alive in Parthia. No sooner had he takenpossession of the kingdom of Judea, than hecaused all the blood royal to be put to death, aslikewise his wife Mariamne, with forty of theprincipal men of Judea, and all the Sanhedrim, ofseventy two senators, that ruled the people, andburnt all the chronicles, and genealogies of allthe kings and princes of Judea, causing NicholasDamascens to draw out his pedigree, and to af¬firm that he ascended from the ancient kings ofthat country; yet when all this was done, Jesusof the same house and line of David, was bornin Bethlehem, and then was exactly fulfilled theprophecy of old Jacob, that the sceptre, &c.Q. Were there not several impostors that tookthe advantage, and declared themselves to beChrist ?A. As all the traditions of the ancient Jewspointed at the coming of the Messias, in thereign of Augustus, and all the people had such ex-pectation of him that several impostors took uponthem that they were Christ, and led away muchpeople, as Judas Golesins (and another Judas)both lewd fellows, as Antoages a shepherd, andtwo others called Theudas and Egyptus j butabove all was Barcozhama, who was for abovethirty years together, received by the Rabbisthemselves for the Messias, but seeing that hewas not able to deliver them from their subjec¬tion to the Romans, at last killed him, as likewiseSimon Magus, that he might not seem inferior toour Saviour, pretended that he was born of avirgin, as Christ was.Q. What is reported concerning the wise menof the east, who were directed by the star, andcame to worship Christ ?A. It is reported that these wise men werelittle kings, or petty lords of particular places,such as those of whom Joshua slew thirty in onebattle. Epiphanus is of opinion that they cameto Jerusalem two years after Christ’s nativity,because Herod slew all the infants of that age ;but it is generally believed that the star appearedto them two years before Christ’s nativity, andthat they came to^ Bethlehem thirteen days afterhis birth, which tfie church calls Epiphan, or thetwelfth day of the three kings,Q. How came those wise men in the east tounderstand the star, that which then appearedunto them, denoted the birth of the king of theJews, or the Saviour of the world ?A. St. Basil supposeth they were great astro¬logers and learned men, who by magic art,much practised in those countries, and seeing thepower of their gods and oracles daily decayed;and, it’s probable, might hear of the prophecy, socommonly spoken of in the east, that out ofJudea should come the Ruler of all the world;8as likewise might have among them in the an¬cient prophecy of old Balaam, that there shouldarise a star out of Jacob, &c., from Moses’ time,being about fifteen hundred years.Q. What did Herod intend by killing the chil¬dren of Bethlehem, and what number was slain ?A. Herod, having obtained the kingdom bysubtility, hearing of-this new King, feared heshould be dethroned, resolved upon his death,and after long expecting the return of the wisemen, but in vain, imagined they had mockedhim, entered into a strange passion, gave ordersfor killing all the children of Bethlehem, andthe borders thereof, which he thought was abouthis age, to the number of fourteen thousand, andalso sent a messenger of death, thrice towardsJohn the son of Zachariah, who was now in thesecond year of his age, but his mother’s earlycare of him saved his life, by sending him intodesert places : yet, amongst this great slaughter,he, who alone was aimed at, was the only childthat had escaped ; but as the babes of Bethlehemdied in the place of Christ, so did John the Bap¬tist’s father die for him.Q. What remarkable sign was left on the mur¬der of Zachariah ?A. Tertullian, who wrote in the defence ofthe Christian religion against the heathens, re¬ports, that the blood of Zachariah so besmearedthe stones of the pavement, on which he wasmurdered, that no art or industry could washthe tincture out, as if God would upbraid the ir-religion and cruelty of the Jews, with a perpetualcharacter of their guilt set before their eyes indeiibly, in exacting all the blood of righteouspersons, from Abel to Zachariah.Q. Did the oracles then cease after the comingof our Saviour ?A. Our blessed Lord likewise showed his orn-nipotency in silencing all the heathen oracles athis birth, of which the Pagan authors took greatnotice, and it is related that the oracles of Apol¬lo were often heard to complain of the Hebrewchild that was born, and to cry, “ Wo is me,lament with me, for the hour of giving answersto them who addressed to my altars is now ta¬ken from me.Q. What became of Herod after his persecut¬ing of Christ in his infancy, and slaying thechildren in Bethlehem ?A. He wore out his miserable life, and was incontinual fear of his own wife and sons, whom,after he had cruelly murdered, he fell into griefand desperation, by reason of a loathsome and in¬curable disease, of which he died, and attemptedto stab himself, but was prevented by the stand-ers by.Q. Do you remember what is said to have be¬come of Archelaus, his eldest son, who was a ter¬ror to Joseph when he returned from Egypt ?A. He being left king by his father Herod,yet Augustus would not confirm the succession,but instead of king made him governor only ofthe fourth part of his dominions, and afterwardsseizing on all his estate, he was banished intoFrance, where he died miserably. -Q. What became of Herod Antipas, brotherto Archelaus, who put John Baptist to death,and scoffed at our Saviour when he was broughtbefore him ?A. Herod with his concubine, before our Sa¬viour’s passion, were both deposed by the Empe¬ror Cejus upon accusation of Agrippa his near¬est kinsman, and contumeliously banished intoFrance, and afterwards into the desert places ofSpain, where they wandered about in great10misery, abandoned of all men, ended theirwretched lives.Q. What became of Herodias, her dancingdaughter, who required John Baptist’s head ?A. It is reported she being forced to pass overa frozen river, the ice broke, and her head wascut off thereby, without hurting the body, to theadmiration of all the spectators,Q. What became of Herod Agrippa, who ac¬cused Herod the tetrarch or governor of Galilee?A. He having slain James and imprisonedPeter, was, in a public assembly of the princesand nobles at Cesarea, struck from heaven witha most horrible disease, whereby his whole bodyputrefied, and he was eaten with worms.Q. What account can you give me, becameof Pontius Pilate, who pronounced sentenceagainst our Saviour ?A. He falling into disgrace in Judea, wenthome to Italy, and there, being neglected anddiscountenanced by the emperor, he fell intodesperation, and killedhimself with his own hands.Q. Who was he that would be worshipped asGod?A. Caligula, who, in contempt of all divinepower, would be worshipped as God, was mur¬dered by his own kindred.Q, Who was the first emperor that persecutedthe Christians, and what become of him ?A. Nero was the first that persecuted them,and after he had put to death Peter and Paulthe apostles at Rome, and murdered his ownmother, brother, \Gfe, and Seneca his master,was so abhorred of all, that the senate condemn¬ed him to be put into the pillory, and to be whip¬ped to death, which, to avoid, he slew himself,complaining, that he had neither friend nor foeto dispatch him. The like tragical death hadthe emperors from Tiberius to Constantine theGreat, who established the Christian religion,died peaceably in his bed, though fdr three hun¬dred years before few or none escaped divine ven¬geance, whose miserable deaths, a noble Chris¬tian, above a thousand years ago, wrote, to showthat they all fell by the power of Jesus, besidesJulian the apostate, and Valens an Arian heretic,were made instances of divine justice, for theirdetestable enormities.Q. What befel the Jews for crucifying the Sa¬viour of the world?A. The Jewish historian relates such intoler¬able calamities and miseries that befel them, soonafter our Saviour’s ascension, as can hardly beimagined, first by Pilate their governor, andthen by Protonius under Caligula, and severalothers afterwards, which made them at lengthrebel against the Romans, which hastened theirutter ruin and extirpation by Titus Vespasian,with the burning of their temple, and destructionof Jerusalem, eleven hundred of them being slainin the siege, seventy-seven thousand taken pris¬oners, who were either put to death, carried intriumph, or sold for slaves in all parts of theworld.Q. What time is it said that this universaldestruction of the Jews happened ?A. It is very remarkable, that their utter de¬struction came upon them forty years after ourSaviour’s death, namely, at the feast of the pass-over, when the whole nation, out of all countriesa id tribes were assembled together, and thatby the hands of the Roman Cassar, for whomthey had rejected Christ, saying, wp, have noking but Crnsar; and as they apprehended Christon mount Olivet, Titus planted his first batteryfor their destruction upon that mount, and as12they led Christ from Caiaphas to Pilate, so theywere hauled up and down from John to Simon,and scourged and tormented before their tri¬bunal seats; again, as Jesus was scoffed at, bea¬ten, and villanously treated by the soldiers inPilate’s palace, so were the Jewish noblemenand governors abused, beaten, and crucified bythe same soldiers. Josephus affirms, that 500 ofthem suffered this opprobrious death in one day,insomuch that the place they died in would hardlycontain so many crosses, nor could they scarcefind crosses to execute them upon.Q. W hat became of those sixty thousand thatTitus sent as a present to his father Vespasian atRome ?A. They were most all put to death for theEmperor’s pleasure, and Josephus says, he saw,with his own eyes, fifteen hundred murdered inone day by combats among themselves, andfifteen with wild beasts, for the Empefor’s diver¬sion, and others were made bonfires of in time oftriumph, and others condemned to the quarriesto dig and hew stones all their lives.Q. Was this of Titus the utter and total ruinof all the Jews ?A. After Titus Adrian destroyed an innumer¬able multitude, and sent his lieutenant Severusto extinguish the whole race of them, who ruinedninety-eight towns and villages, and slew 580Jews in one day ; he razed the walls and ancientbuildings of Jerusalem, so that one stone was notleft upon another, and changed the name of itunto Eliah, after that of his master Elias Adri-anna, and made a law that it should be death forany Jewish slave ever to return thither, or somuch as to look from any high place toward thatcountry again.Q. As there were many of the Jews converted,13and were become Christians in Jerusalem, didthese suffer in the destruction of Jerusalem ?A. There* were many that had embraced thedoctrine of the apostles and believed in Christ, inand about Jerusalem; but Lactantius relates :That, after they had put to death the two James’s,and banished both Peter and Paul and others,Christ, who has always a care over his own,appeared to Peter and Paul at Rome, beforetheir martyrdom, and declared that, within threeor four years after their death, he would takerevenge on the Jews by the utter destruction otJerusalem, and that generation ; which, he says,they revealed to the Christians in Judea, where¬upon, Eusebius saith, they departed from Jerusa¬lem, not long before the siege began, to build atown called Pilla, beyond Jordan, to which Jesushad directed them, it being under the govern¬ment of Agrippa, who being in amity with theRomans, would be safe.Q. Who was the first Emperor that embracedthe Christian faith, and proclaimed liberty untothem ?A. Constantine the Great was the first thatestablished the Christian religion ; he died peace¬ably in-his bed, though for 300 years before fewor none escaped divine justice.Q. What was the first heathen country thatembraced the Christian religion ?A Of all other nations in the world, noneearlier embraced the Christian religion with morereadiness than the Egyptians, demolishing theiridolatrous images before any other heathen na¬tion, and giving example to other countries todo the same, so they were the first who, after thecoming of Christ, returned to the worship of thetrue God.Q. Do you mind the apology that Tertullian14wrote to the heathen emperor, in the defenceof the Christian religion, in the time of the fourthpersecution ?A. In a few years Christianity was spread overall the world, so that the Roman emperors beganto dread the effect, and their adversaries repre- 1sented them as traitors and enemies to the govern- _ment. Tertullian argues with the emperor thus :“ If we were enemies to the state, you might thengo and seek new cities and countries to govern, !since you would have more adversaries than loyalsubjects in your empire ; we have filled your jcities, your towns, your provinces, your castles,your fortresses, your camps, your tents, your 'palaces, your senates, your market-places, andyour islands, only we have left your idolatroustemples to yourselves, all the places being fullof Christians; if we were enemies, what dan¬gerous rebellion might we have made, thoughour numbers be but small, in comparison of therest of your people, since we so little value ourlives, that we suffer ourselves to be slain daily ;notwithstanding your unjust persecution of us,we are loyal, patient, and obedient, and that the sChristian religion obliges us rather to be killed j,than to kill.”Q. What was the encouragement Cyrus the ..Persian emperor caused to be proclaimed for |men who would enlist in his service ?A. His proclamation was, that whosoever would jbe his soldiers, if he be a footman, said he, I willmake him an horseman, if an horseman, I willmake him ride in a chariot; if he be a farmer Iwill make him a gentleman, if he possess a cot¬tage, I will bestow on him a village, if he has a Ivillage, I will give him a city, if he be a lord of ia city, I will make him jjovernor of a province, iand for gold and silver, I will pour it out on him ;15by weight and measure, and not by tale—Thiswas the pompous edict of Cyrus to gain followersfor the prosecuting his designs.Q. Was Christ’s proposal after this manner ofCyrus, to such as would serve under his banner ?A. No, but contrariwise, his sermons were,“ Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.In this world you shall have trouble, you shallbe as sheep among wolves, they shall deliver youi up to the councils, and scourge you in the syna¬gogues, ye shall be brought before governorsand kings, and shall be hated of all men for myname’s sake ; and if any man be my disciple, lethim deny himself, and take up his cross, and fol¬low me. Whosoever shall save his life for mysake, shall lose it,” and finally, he says, “ If any mancome to me and hate not his father and mother,wife, and children, his brethren and sisfers; yea,his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.Q. His encouragements being so contrary tothe natural affections of men, did he get manyfollowers ?A. Though Christ’s discouraging doctrineswere so contrary to man’s natural and sensualappetite, yet he gained more hearts in forty years,than ever any monarch in the world by propos¬ing the greatest profits and advantage to theirsubjects.Q. Did Christ leave any writings to his follow¬ers, as other lawgivers did ?A. Our Saviour left nothing written by him¬self, but passed out of this world in innocencyand silence, without any ostentations of his ownactions, that the prophecy of Ezekiel might befulfilled, “ That there should be four undeceiv-able witnesses, which day and night should,without ceasing, preach, extol, and magnify theirLord and Master.”16Q. As then were many deceivers, who pre¬tended to be the Messiah, how do you know thatthis Jesus was the true Messiah, or Saviour ofthe world ?A. We have the full assurance of Jesus beingthe true Messiah, in that all the manifest pro¬phecies, long before prophesied by the holy pro¬phets, both of the birth, life, doctrine, action,death, resurrection, and ascension, were punctual- .ly fulfilled while Jesus was upon the earth, and weare hereby fully assured, that he was the Saviourof the world, and which is more evident by whatensued after his ascension and departure out ofthis world, by considering his power, duty, love,care, and providence, his perfect accomplishmentof all his prophecies, and justification of all hissermons and doctrines upon earth, all which fullydeclare and manifest him to be the true Mes¬siah and Saviour of the world.Q. What account does Josephus, the Jewishhistorian, give of our blessed Saviour ?A. Josephus writes thus: “In these times livedJesus, a very wise man, if it be lawful to call hima man, because in truth he did marvellous things,and was master and teacher to them that lovedhim, and sought after the truth. The Jews andGentiles followed him in great numbers; andthough he was afterwards accused by some ofthe chief of our religion and crucified, yet he was ;not forsaken of those that followed him ; andthree days after his death he appeared unto themaccording as the prophets had prophesied of him. iAnd now, even in our days, the doctrine and thename of Christians continue and are spread overall |the world.”Q. What is further related of the death ofChrist, besides what we find in the holy Scripture?A. In the 34th year of our blessed Saviour’s17life he was crucified by the wicked Jews, whichproduced prodigious effects, attested as well byheathens as Christians At his death therewas a great darkness in the day-time, from threeo’clock, at which time our Saviour gave up theghost, till six ; and yet there was no eclipse of thesun, it being then full moon; so that was only bythe power of God, who deprived the sun of itslight for that space of time. And Dyonysius beingthat day at Athens, and knowing by the courseof the heavens, that this eclipse must be unnatural,cried out, “ Either the world is at an end, or theGod of nature suffers.” And the wise men ofAthens, being astonished at this prodigy, orderedan altar to be built, and dedicated it to the un¬known God ; for which St. Paul reproved them,relating that Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of theworld, who had suffered death by the Jews, wasthe unknown God, whereby he converted many tothe Christian faith.Q. What account do the Romans give of Christ?A. In the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Lentulus,the Roman governor of Judea, wrote the follow¬ing letter to the senate: “ There appeared inthese our days a man of great virtue, called JesusChrist, who is yet living among us, and of thepeople accepted as a prophet; but his own disci¬ples call him the Son of God. He raiseth thedead, and cureth all manner of diseases; a mantall and comely of stature, with a very reverendcountenance, such qs the beholders may both fearand love: his hair of the colour of the chestnutfull ripe, and plain down his ears, but from thencedownwards more orient of colour, waving downhis shoulders. In the midst of his head goeth aseam or portion of his hair after the manner ofthe Nazarites ; his forehead very plain andsmooth ; his face without spot or wrinkle, beauti-18fied with a comely red : his nose and mouth soformed that hothing can reprehend. His beardsomewhat thick, agreeable to the hair of his head,not of any length, but forked in the midst; of aninnocent look, eyes being grey, clear, and quick. !In reproving, he is severe ; in admonishing cour¬teous and friendly; pleasant in speech, mixedwith gravity. It cannot be remembered that anyhave seen him laugh, but many have observed *him to weep. In proportion of body well shaped,his hands and arms very delectable to behold:in speaking temperate, modest, and wise. A manfor his singular beauty excelling the children ofmen.”Q. Did not the many miracles performed bythe apostles, convince all, that they were done bythe power of God ?A. No; for there were several that calumniatedthem as if they were done by magic art, and thepower of the devil, as Julian and Nero, andSimon ftfagus alleged, who, emulating the mi¬racles of the apostles, studied the vain science,in order to imitate them therein.Q. Do you know what became of this SimonMagus?A. This Simon Magus, by his subtle cheats, |and diabolical devices, got him into high esteem iwith Nero, so that the Emperor made him hisgreatest favourite, and the rest of the people ac- ;counted him a god ; the apostle Peter being |come to Rome, was grieved to find the peopleimposed upon by this sorcerer, was resolved tounmask the tricks and delusions of this vile im-postor; a fit occasion presented itself, as isrecord- 'ed by Hegesippus. “ There died at this time,”saith lie, “ a young gentleman, near of kin to theEmperor, for the raising of whom to life, therepas a great contest between Peter and the magi-19cians ; the latter challenged the apostle to perforinthe same, who, being strong ia faith, readily ac-^cepted thereof, and when Magus and the devilwere both baffled, not being able to effect the greatmiracle, Peter, by the power of God, restoredthe person to life, the people being enraged tosee how the sorcerer had imposed upon them,were ready to have stoned him to death, had notthe apostle’s charity and generosity rescued him ;yet this had so little influence upon him, that awhile after he had the presumption or folly to en¬ter upon another bold undertaking, which was tofly up into heaven ; but his artificial wings, or histwo invisible devils, as it is said, failing him, he fellto the ground with such broken bones and bruisesas in a few days put an end to his life.”Q. Was there ever an attempt made to rebuildthe temple of Jerusalem ?A. Yes; Julian the apostate, Emperor of Rome,who was once a Christian,,but afterwards returnedto idolatry, resolved to build the temple in de¬spite of Christ; and that this prophecy might notprove true, “ That one stone shall not be left up¬on another;” but when the workmen were lay¬ing the foundation, adreadful earthquakehappen-ed, and fire issued out of the earth, destroyed allthe men, and dispersed all the stones, so thatthere was not one stone but what was separatedfrom another.Q. What happened at their laying the founda¬tion ?A. There was a stone which slipt from itsplace, and discovered the mouth of a cave cut ina rock, but the overseers of the work not beingable to see to the bottom of it, let down a labour¬er by a rope, and being come to the bottom, hewas up to the ancles in water, and found theplace four square, and laying his hands on a little20pillar above water, he met with a book wrap¬ped up in a clean linen cloth ; and being drawnup, the spectators were amazed it should be sofresh, lying in such a dark hole. The book be¬ing opened surprised both the Jews and Gre¬cians that were present, they finding in the be¬ginning of it these words, writ in capital letters:IN THE BEGINNING WAS THE WORD,AND THE WORD WAS WITH GOD,AND THE WORD WAS GOD. And in¬deed, saith the historian, that Scripture did mani¬festly contain all the gospel, which the beloveddisciple, St. John, had declared.Q. Is there not an admirable story of thegreat Mogul in the East Indies ?A. Yes;- it happened some years before SirThomas Row was embassador from James I. tohis court, that a juggler of Bengal brought anape before the Mogul that did many strangefeats ; the king to try his skill, plucked a ring offhis finger, and gave It to one of his boys to hide,which he presently discovered. At last thisfancy came into his head: “ There are many dis¬putes,” says he, “concerning the true prophet tha^should come into the world. We are for Ma¬homet; the Persians magnify Martis-ally; theHindoos, or heathens, extol Aramon, Ram, andothers ; the Jews are for Moses, and the Chris¬tians for Christadding several others, to thenumber of twelve, whose names he caused to bewrit in twelve scrolls and put in a basin. Thisdone, the ape put his paw among them, and pulledout the name of Christ. He then caused thenames to be written a second time in otherscrolls, and the ape again pulled out the name ofChrist as before. Upon this one of the Mogul’sfavourites said, it was an impostor of the Chris¬tians, and desired a third trial with only eleven212fnames, reserving that of Christ in his hand.The ape searching as before, pulled out his emptypaw; whereupon the Mogul was told, that possi¬bly the thing he looked for was not there. Theape was bid to search for it, who bringing outthese eleven names one after another, in seemingindignation rent them all to pieces, and catchingthe favourite by the hand, where the name ofChrist was concealed, opened it, and held it upto the Mogul, without tearing the same. Uponwhich the Mogul gave his keeper a pension, call¬ing him the Divining Ape. The truth whereof,saith Mr Terry, chaplain to Sir Thomas Row, wasconfirmed by several persons of different reli¬gions.Q. Is there not a strange relation of an appa¬rition that happened at Mahomet’s tomb ?A. Mr Knowles, in his history of the Turks,affirms as a certain truth, that in 1620 a surpris¬ing vision was seen at Medina, in Arabia, whereMahomet lies buried, which continued twentydays, terrifying the whole country. On Sep¬tember the 20th in that year, a great tempest ofwind, rain, and thunder happened about mid¬night ; but when the sky became clear, the peo¬ple might plainly read in it, in Arabian charac¬ters, these words: “Oh ! why will ye believe inlies?” And between two and three in the morn¬ing, appeared a woman clothed in white, seem¬ing to be compassed with the sun, having a cheer¬ful countenance with a book in her hand: overagainst her were seven armies of Turks, Persians,Arabians, and other Mahometans, in battlearray, ready to fight with her; but she keepingher station, only opened the book ; at whichthe armies fled, and presently all the lamps aboutMahomet’s tomb went out; for when the visionvanished, an hour before sun-rising, a murmur-22ing wind was heard, to which they imputed theextinguishing of the lamps.Q. What events happened thereupon ?A. The ancient pilgrims of Mahomet’s racewere much amazed to understand the meaningof it, when one of the priests made this oration :“ The world never had but three true religions,every one of which had a prophet. First, Godchose the Jews, and did wonders for them inEgypt, and brought them thence by their prophetMoses, and prescribed them a law, wherein hewould have maintained them, if they had not beenobstinate and rebellious in falling into idolatry;whereupon he gave them over and dispersed themupon the face of the earth. Then presently afterGod sent a new prophet, who taught the Christianreligion. This good man the Jews condemnedand crucified, for a seducer of the people, notbeing moved with the piety of his life, his greatmiracles, nor his doctrine; yet after his death afew fishermen so moved the hearts of the peo¬ple, that the monarchs of the world bowed downto his very title, and yielded to the command ofhis ministers. But in process of time they grewas corrupt as the Jews, the church being dis¬joined with the names of Eastern and Western,committing idolatry again, by setting up images,with many other idle ceremonies, and corruptingtheir lives, so that God was weary of them, andforsook them. Yet God is still the Governor ofthe world, and hath himself raised up anotherprophet and people, even our Mahomet, givinghim our nation; so that no doubt we shall behappy for ever, if we can but serve this Godaright; and take warning from the fall of others.But alas! I tremble to speak of it; we erred inevery point, and wilfully broke our first insti¬tution: so that God hath manifested his wrathby eminent signs and tokens, keeping our pro¬phet from us, who prefixed a time to returnwith all happiness to his people ; so that therexareforty years past by our account. And doubtlessthis strange and fearful vision is a presage ofsome great troubles and alterations; for eitherthe opening of the book in the women’s handdoth foretel our falling off from the first intent ofour laws, whereat the armed men do part, asconfounded with the guilt of their own con¬sciences ; or else it signifies some other book lwherein we have not yet read, and against whichno power shall prevail. So that I fear our reli¬gion will be proved corrupt, and our prophetMahomet an impostor; and then this Christ,whom they talk of shall shine like the sun, andset up his name everlastingly.”Q. What is related in ancient histories con¬cerning the seven sleepers ?A. They were born in the city of Ephesus, inthe time when Decius, the heathen Romanemperor persecuted the Christians. These goodmen being of that profession, whose names wereMaximilian, Malchus, Martianus, Dorinus, John,Serapion, and Constantius, to avoid torture,and the worship of idols, fled into a cave inmount Celion, where, after long praying, watch¬ing, and fasting, being refreshed with some foodthey had secretly sent for from the city, they forheaviness fell asleep. Shortly after the emperor,suspecting they were in that cave, caused themouth thereof to be stopped up with stones, thatso they might die with hunger. After whichTheodosius and Ruffinus, two Christian authors,wrote an account of their martrydom, supposingthem to be dead, and enclosed it secretly amongthe stones. Decius and that generation beingdead, Theodosius, a Christian emperor, succeed-Y4ed after many years ; at which time a citizen ofEphesus, designing to make a lodge for his shep¬herds in that cave, and the workmen opening themouth of it, these seven Christians, that had sleptall this while, awaked, and saluted each other,verily supposing they had slept but one night,and began to remember their heaviness the daybefore. They then sent Malchus to buy breadin the city, and gave him five shillings. Comingto the mouth of the cave, he wondered to see themason at work ; and, going into the city, foundall things altered, and the cross set upon thechurches ; he then went to those who sold bread,and they spoke of. Christ; at which they muchwondered, that there should be such a changesince yesterday, when none durst speak of the trueGod, but he was now professed openly : but thecoin was so old, that the people said, Jure this ^young man hath found some ancient treasure.Upon which they carried him before the bishop >and council, where he declared, that he and sixmore hid themselves yesterday in a cave, to es¬cape the fury of Decius, and had taken thatmoney with them. - The Emperor Theodosiusbeing acquainted therewith, he, with many others,went and found the other six cheerful and hearty,their garments not being worn by age or time.The Emperor hereupon glorified God, embrac¬ing and weeping over them for joy, saying,I receive you like so many Lazaruses out of yourgraves. They continued alive some short timeafter, and then died, and were buried in greatpomp and state by the Emperor. It appearedthey had slept two hundred and eight years.FINIS.