Nimble and Quick!Pick and Chufe where vou will.Here Something to pleafeevery BodyOR, REMARKS ON THEHumocrs of the Age :CONSISTING OFWhimfical, Witty Diverting, Comical andufeful - 'bfervations on the Virtuesanu Vices of the imes.To which is added,A Letter from a Gentleman to his Taylor,Both Comical and Diverting,STIRLING:Printed and fold by C. RandalU18 03..NIMBLE AND qUICK:OR.The Virtues and Vices of the Age.I Never think of a wife *till I am hungry,and then \ look ent for one that will bringto a morfel of bread.I love ftrong beer but twice in the year,and that n in Summer and Winter.I hate Lawyers and Liars, btcaufe theybreed wrangling and jangling.I woulu be a Scjldier, was there all plun¬dering and no fighting.I love a Clergyman that prattifes whathe pre. ches; but we muft mind what he fays,' not whaf he does.If ever 1 marry, 1*11 have the ugliefi: wo¬man I can find, and then I lhall be fure tohave her to myfelf. *Shew me a Poet, a Lawyer and a Quaker,and I’ll Ihew you three Liars.Of all the men in the world, blind menwalk the moft upright; and they are the moffccharitable ; for they never fee any one’s faults.Of all the people i picy vVhores for theyhazard foul and body for a nuferable liveli¬hood and hinder-end.( 3 )Was I a man in power I would buililAlms boufes forth* rich, and maintain themat their o wn coft.The greatelt folly in the world, is, to lovethe world.In ancient ages the world bragged of IV/enwife men, but now ever? one is wife in nisown conceit ; but tho’ fom& are w fe, yetthe moft are otherwifeOf all culiings, 1 hate Qaaok D *ffors,for if they do good, the woriu shall hear fafhenough of v.the greateft' enemies the whores have,are the French Pox. and th * > P' ;the one fpoils their face, and the other theirconftitution.t hate riches for the danger that attendthem j for l would not endanger my life tota bulhel of gold.Ballad-fingers have the honeftefl: fnde inthe world tor they always deal with ready-money; it is alfo an ancient and an honour¬able employm.n', for Homer himfelf wasone ot the bufmefsB.iilors are the brwrfft and merriell fel¬lows alive when there is but an inch be-j tween them and their graveThough the Aitrologer is a wife m?n,and tells future events, he feldom can teiithe man th*t cuckolded him or when.It would puzzleaP.rilofopherwhether to givethe preference to a Chimney, fweeper orthe Dung-man, feeing they are both ufsful( ATea and Tobacco are pernicious weeds,and grand thit.v. s: they better deftrvc hang-ing thin Highviavnien. for they pick thepockets cf the whole nation.vV hat’s the'd'.fF’-ence between ale drapersand linen urapei s ? Only this, I he one cheatsyou with froth, and the other with cloth.if Extortioners cannot enter the kingdomof bcav* n, where muft Uferers, Fallymenand Pawn orokcrs go ?8\ Cards and Dice a man is ruined ina trice : for gaming and whoring often hangtogether as in a eh ifSoldiers and Butchers are bloody nearrelations for they equally live by kiliingand fliughteringl never fee a Taylor hut he puts me inmind of cabbage, nor a Miller, or a Weaver,Jb-ut 1 think of a Thief.A&ors and Apes are-the greateft mimicksin the world j it is hard to determine if theyare rational creatures.Good Women and good fmall Beer arehard to be found ; yet thtfe are good intheir kmd.A lober wife bov is preferable to a viciousgrevheaoed old fool; like as a living Dogis better th .n a dead Lion.Number me the ftars in the fky, and thefand on the ihore, and then 1 11 number youthe numberlels faults of lewd women ; yeta fair and virtuous woman is the pride ofnature and the glory of the uaiverfe ! But,where ihail i find her ?( 5 >Swearing and curfing is the language ofhell, which wicked people takes pains to learnbefore they g/p there-Beauty is the fairefl flower in nature'sgarden ; but that man is a fool that doatsmuch on fuch a fading toy.Had I mv will, all Bachelors at the ageof twenty Ihould be obliged to marry andlive honelt with handfome women for theirown fake, and with homely women for thefake of being charitable. I would conflrainwealthy Mifers to marry poor Women,and rich Ladies to marry poor Batchelors,in order, if polfible, to bring theL wholeworld on a level.*lf I cotiid difpofe of Nature, I would giveall Hypocrites two faces, becaufe, like theWaterman, they look one way, and rowanother.If Men and women’s properties and faultswere written on their foreheads, there wouldnot be fo many deceived people in the world.Yet there is a method of knowing one s realchara&er, which every wife perfon will en¬deavour to learn.Portioning of Daughters, and buildingof .Ships, are chargeable things } yet. -afteraU our coft and pains, they prove but leakyyefleis.If t had three fons and one of them a dunce,two fh? uld pra&iie Law and PhyAc, and thethird ihoula be a Parfon.( 6 1There are five great rarities hard to befound and thofe are, \ black Swan, a P. oeilix,an Unicern, the Philofopher’s Stone anda maid at fixteen.^ here is one abominable pra&ice- 1 can’thelp reminding you of* and that is Neigh¬bours going to law about trifles, when theirfamilies have fcarce food to eat.i’here are five things which are wonderfulfwifr, viz. fame, which, like a fnow-ball,gathers as it goes ; a-Molket-fhot, that kdlsbefore you hear the report ; the Sight, thatreaches the heavens in an inftant ; Thought,th t tr; v rfes the globe in an inftant ; andLighaiing, which kills the child in thewomb and hurts*not the mother, and alfomelts gold m a bag without finging the bag.So • e fav that Etgland is tile garden ofthe world but, as the King of France onceobferved “ Fherc is many a bitter weedin it,’* Others call it a Paraoife for Women,a Purgatery for Servants, and a Hell forH GiftsWe have the handfome.fl; Women in theworld .1 muft own. and we give them thegreateft privilege viz. ^he honour of the hat,the wall, the third of tfiates and the like ;yet they feldotn give any thing in return,but a Twinging pair of horns j and if yotlhumonr them an inch, they will then takean ell. But flill there is no general ruleWfijthout exceptions ; what I fpeak is uponthe common huraour of man, one ffory isgood till another is told. In the mean time( 7 ^give me leave to fpeak my thoughts andthofe ate. that l believ* good bu&ands makegocd^vives; and if ihey ire bad. there willbe fix of 'he one and half a dozen of the other.|So mend us all.[ And thus*Yve jtnijh'd what I fir/l 'propoYcfc,And if I’ve more or lefs than irutb difclos dyWhat you like not, excujefor this one time,'Tis need makes old wives not and Poets rhime •‘Therefore extend yOur wit, on this improve^And difappoint meats fjail youftlaom move.CURIOUS CONUNDRUMS.Ch^Vv HY is a man m debt like a nobleman?1 A Becaufe he has many to wait on him.Why i f' earing like a lhabby coat ?A. Becaufe it is a bad habitWhy is a bad peri 'ike a wicked man?A Becaufe it needs mending.^Vhy is a church bell like a good ftory ?A ^ecaule it is cUen toll’dWhv is a drawn tooth like a thing forgot?'A. Becaufe it is out of ore’s bead.Wt.y is a book like a rteo in fummer ?A. Becaule it is iull ot leaves.Why is a good argument like a plumhpud. ing ?A. Jtkcaufe there is zesfons in it.( 8 ).OOP7 0,7 A LETTER,Sent by a Gentleman to bis Taylor in Glafgow.JO IN, caufe my clofhes be made, I pray,Some time before the Sabbath Day ;This f-tble Co„t in which Pve mourn'd.Is now fo very lhabby turn d,I cannot.in the church appear.With decency, the word to hear :Now, it will be a greater fm,If you on Sunday keep me in,From public prayers and advice.Than killing of ten thoufund lice !John. U my orders you fulfil.You fhall receive a double gill.Of as good highland Aquavifae,As can be purchas’d in tire city ;A Fadge, two Herrings and a Pye,Small Beer at will to drink when dry ;With half a pound of Suffolk Cheefe,Which may for once a Taylor pleafe.But, if my cloathing is delay'd.May ail thefe evils you betide :Youu Coat hang badly on your back,Your Needle break at every tack.Your Board be full of holes and knobs,And finalhr than the King of Clubs ;Your Thimble fmooth as Parchment grow.Your Iron as cold as Greenland fnow;Your dciffm blunt, without a handle.Your Bodkin fofter than a Candle,And Lice inhabit all your borders,for flighting of a Poet’s orders.FINIS.