T1I£PRINTED THIS PRESENT YEAR,1813.Wonderful ExploitsO FW ise Wriliie & Witty Eppic,the Ale Wife:AND THEHiftory of Buckhaven,IN FIFE-SHIRE.WITH AjDescription of their Antiquities, College,Burgess-Ticket, 6;Coat-of-Arms.*T*H F!HISTORY OF BUCK-HAVEN.AMongll fsveral ancient old records, thisBucky is not mentioned. There wasa Ft calied Buccaneers, which was pirates,(that is to fay, fea-robbcrs) and aher ftn£tfeirch aftt r thefe Fa-rohbers, they were dif-perfed. What of them efcaped J d'tice in theloutht-rn climate, is i'.id to file.ter at o nearBerwick upon Tweed. After a fm,-:r; b.ittieamong themfelves, they divid d, and it isfaid, the pirty who gained this Bucky-battletearing the Englifli law to take p ace, theyfet northward, and took up their refiderceat Bucky-haven, fo called, not only ac¬count of the gre.-u quanth es of buckies thatis found in and about the place, but on ac¬count of the battle they hud ith their neigh¬bours at Berw ick, when they divided, w hich,they called bucking one-another, which isnow named boxing or fighting. Anot! erparty of thofe Buckers fettled In a fifh-ing town near Called B icky, nearthe river Spev, which is a large fea-town.But among all the fea-towns in Sccland the‘fiihers flill retains alnngtu g^ quite differentfrom the p- pie in the country, and almoflthey fhift the letter II, and ufes O inlleadthereof, wnich no country people nScoilarddoes but ti emfVlves. T’tiere is a .omoptionfpeech in every co mn ».ver all Britain,and i kev-ife they ufe^ ffjrent tones and wavsof pronoiinupgwords 1 rom ■ the’s; ever fnmein tue F utii ot Scotland, can hardly he un-ilerltood by tbofe in the north, though bothpretend to {peak good Englifh. and have aMiberal part of educati n-: ]’ui fince learning15 now i'o eafy to be obtained, ignorance andlorruption of fpeech is greatly decreafed.In the county of Fife, on the fea-coafl , there.ands a lictle town inhabited by few but fifh-•rs,calledfluck-harbour,beca!ile ot lea-buck-gs and fliells to be found fo pl-nty on thejocks in and about tiie place. There is lit-Je mention made of this to * n by Ilillorians,p know its original extrusion, and an;’.qui¬zes, but in their own burges-tickets. whichu'as part of it perfect truths, but wore of iti*y way of lampoon. This ticket was d.ued;he two-and thirtieth day of the month of Ju-LusCasiar. i'hei’' coatof arms was two handsiripping each other over a {Fare’s rumple.—-i'heir oath wts, “ I wifli that de de’i! mac•ik me, an I oinna an honeft man to you, ane binna de like to me.'’ An ^rti .-.le of goodieignb mrhood they had, “ Whoever was lidtP »n a good morning, was to raifo ali the refto go to fea; but if a very bad m irning the/nis <-nd go to bed again till break of d\y ;ihen raife Wife Willy, who could judge thereadier by the blaming of the wind.’'j Their Freedoms were to take all forts of ft Hitontained in their tickets, viz lobllers, par-nons. podlies, fpout-fifli, fea-cais, fea-dogs,jilucks, picks, dick podocks, and p—fifli.C-^rain, thefe people are faid to have de-,;sendea from one I om and his two Tons, who( 4 )were fifhers on the conft of Norway; and :|a violent Uorm vere blown over, and go c|Ihore at Buck-harbour, where thev 1’ettlecEand the w'hole of his children were cal!dThom Tons, who foon became numerous, aijilived in a town by themftlves; few of aruother name dwelt among them. They kebut little communication ' ith the counuJjieople; for a farmer in thole days thouglihis daughter call away if Ihe married one «the filiters in Bucky-harbour : And \\ itlEppie, the ale-wife, wad a Iworn, Be-g*laddie, I wad rather fee my boat an a’ mthree Ions dadet againll the Bals, or the faony ane o’ them married to a much-a-byre idaughtera.whin ufelels tappies it can dinaething but rive at a tow rock, an cut corrthev can neither bait a hook, nor rade a lin*honk fandals, nor gather pirriwinkels. IN'’W, Wife Willie and Witty Eppie, thjale-wifelifod there about ahundredyear ag<;Eppie’s chamber was their College and CoupHoufe, w l:ere they decided controvetfics aniexplained their wonders; for the houle walike a H’.tle kirk, having four windows an)a gar le-door; The wives got leave t« flyjtheu .Fn btit fighting was prohibited, ns Epptfajd, Up-'iauds was fair-play. 1 heir finjw as a p ut o*ale. ar.dEppic fde’d it 3' a pla,hht pint. They had neither Mini Her nV1NJ . .iftrate, nor. vet a Burley-'* 'be, to bi4thi;; V; >’ .his to’booth ; My Lord was theidlord, Wife Willy and Witty Eppie, the>-wife, were the-rtilers of the town.)\Vw, Evipie had a daughter, fhe ca’d herjjgle-tail’d Nancy,' becauie of her necklclsw.h ; her waifl was like a twitter, had naeSpen for a creel, being Edinburgh-bred,4 brought up wi’ her Loudin aunty; was'fn’d to read and few, made corfe-claiths,Jlcallicoe mancoes; there was naeafcholar«:he town but herfel’ ; (lie read the Bible,d' the book ot Kirk bangs was newly comeyaihioh. W dlie and Eppie tell’d them ayiat it mean’d, and laid a’ the letters in it wasiled by my Lord, for they faw him hae afea-• >"that he dipped in black vt'ater and madepoked fcores,jufl like the fame, and than he' ke o’er again, and it tell’d him what to fay.jit happened on a day, that two of theirwes finding a.horfe-fhoe near the town,-Dught it home, and fent for Willie, to feewat it was. Willie comes and looks at it:Heed, co’ Willie, it's a thing and holes in’rrte kend, co’ they, he wad get a name till’tl(|hol co’ Willie, whar did ye find it?ieath ray Lord’s ain houL, Willie. Adeed,•|d \V illie, it’s the auld moon, I ken by the4es i.Vt, for nailing it to the. lift; but Inder it fhe fell in Fife, for tbe laftVime ihw her, fhe was hinging on. h.er back aboonIhnourgh. A heck, co’ v,i!j\e, we»u fet her|iou the higheit houfe in t'Ae town, and we’llf n:i0^-'ight o’ our a iU a> the jayS 0» thefar. i he whole tavvi A ran tQ ree the moon!thegither, it’s Icnit ine p’ tl■UiiYti wears 'ip '’ her iiife.At inota r time , oa; of the wives fo'Ja hare, vi a its leg. broken, lying among 1kail in the v .rd ; Ihe kot knowing whatnwas, cried oat to her neighbours to come afee it ! Some faid it was a gentleman’s cor my Ladv ’s lap-dog, or a Iheep’s youkitlen, o. ci.if it had faft horns. Na, na, fawife willic. it’s ane of the maukins tligentlemen’s dogs worries: how will we cwit? Stai'■ co’they all, we’li'fing the wt>all', an uK-.k fu'h and f.uce o’t to our paaritN i, nn, faid witty Eppie, bet er gie’t to rrLord, an he’d hap an iron Itick thro’ the guo’t, nn gar’t rin round afore the fire till it 1roailcd. Na, na, faid wife willie, w^ll rdp that indeed, for my Lord wad make t:i’ dogs, nn gar us -rin thro1 a’ the countrifeeidng maukitis till him.It happened in a dark winter morning, th^two of the wives were going to Dyfart to fe|tlieir fith; and on the road-fide, there haapened to be fome tinker’s afs tathered. Thpoor afs feeing the two wives coming wittheir creels thought it was the tinkers con:ing to flit or relieve him, fell a-cryingl Thwives threw their fifli'away, and ran hemlike mad perfons. crying they had feen tfide’il.’ay the very horned de’il, and that hfpoke to them, but they didna ken whsihe faid, for it was worfe words tLaa a higln< 1 )li&n^msn’s! The whole town was In arl tip.^■roar! fame would go vvith picks snd fpades,to hagg him in pieces ; others wad kiatch himitn a ilrong nee, and then they couid eitnerThar.g or^lrown him. Na na,co’uiC. willie,.tve maun a caR out wi’ him at tli# firu.^s he’sgotten the twa burdens >•’ filh, he’ll e’en gang;his wa*, an no fafn us nae muu; he is o’errtfouple to be catch’a in a net, a’ your pith willjneit'ner hang him nor drown him, and thekintry he comes frae, is a’ bet coals, he’llaiever burn ; we’li gae to him in a civil:rnanner, and fee what he warns : Get wittyrEppie, the ale-wife, ami Lingle-tail’d Nancytvi’ the Bible and Pfalm-Book. So afT theyname in a crowd, either to kill the de il crnatch him alive; and as they came near thenlace, the afs fell a-crying, caufing many tohunt and run back! Na, na, co’ willie, that’s,nae the de’il’s words at a’, it’s ny I.ord’strumpeter touting on his brafs whiftle : willieVentured till he faw the afs’s twa lugs; Nov/,iried willie to the reR, come forward an hafluim faR, I fee his twa horns! Ilech, firs, hejas a white beard, like an auld beggar man !.t>o they inclofed the poor afs on all fides,•ih'mki ng it was the de’il; bat when willie«w he hsd nas cloven feet, he cried out,frcsrna lads, this isno thede’il, it’s feme livingieall, it’s neither cow nor horlie. An what is’c(then,willie? Indeed, co’ willic, it’s the father■ r the maukins, 1 ken by its lang lugs.(3 )'W,'fom-p ''r : -v v? tor-"t .’ 'i'; accoi{''Tl-.e kivj'vlet-^etimeA, nof to ky nny pl«oe*by'3no-v'ives will tell }^>o vet of tuary fucof the devil appearing to the;;" granand gyan<fmother?., 'and 'h vv-tve?again {o 'vTi* th-ir fan-do*: •. In'-* nrdead : fo thi' B1* > h :v - ;1--droll exp'firt t-:'1 oc *aud a ph>. i ;aid t*>f * • ' • 1 -fne-n or k'dlors'ofa^v *o '■ '« ' oc-i-fct many of the'ofd pc p' in -the old tineUtre of their an- ^en-t ?.r.tivuted fpeec’n. as. Thlado-t. a,.:nature. If vou rf: - to >; ■ «• 'Jtheir College *iand^ '.cd • onrofe were in *'1 a--, y-cui* inont1*. woultbe at the door :h it.Now it happened wi-.cn wife w illie grevold, he took a greht lwelling in hi* wnn-earid calling up Irt kail, collops, or.d cud-■fifh, that *’Orlp lig c on Id Uay or. h;shoinaolt|and a ilou ftoinrsoh h r! he, for crabs, pe.nkand loate-broc. or brofe m a brida^on)' ;ngvet it failed him, and he feli lick iNoncould cure him, or tell what ail’d iv'^ tla’ 'mountebank flage-doclor came to Kiri*caldy, that could ] ;dge by per-pie':• p>-fs, thtrouble, of ' heir peri('»n ; and wile wihir ht t>ing of his fame, p.lfed into a bolt ?, a' d leiit away with hi? daughter: the bottle bo ifuncorked, Ms daughter fpilt it by the waysnd to cooCv-al he'r llolh in lo doing, p’-ff*h’ '*hut):of of.: erg olhiftorierf Intheroo-m'or S in.-,r:d ffl!: sUK AVl\ KV lit;■ scortill retaiiII nr-cuO 2 Ri'"n v.'bef. if vou( 9 )^ it herfclf, an on fhe goes, and then comes■) the flage-doctor and crie' aloud. Sir doc-jr.^Sir do£l’r, here is a bottle of mv fa.ner’s wafh, he h is a fair guts, and needsna;rite ony, but fpues a* he eat ; it’s true I telljotl my dow. The dpftor looking at it, laid,si’s notyour father’s.furely it’s your mother’s.)e’il’s i’tha man, fa id file, divna I ken myiither frae my mither ? Then, faid the doftor,e is with child. De’il’s i’tha mar, co’ Ihe^>r my mither bare a’ de bairns before, dat’s0 true Sir, figs ye’re a great liar. Home fhenmesj and tell’d willie her father, that theJoftor faid he was wi’ bairn. O waes me, co’Jillie, for I hae a muckle wame, an’ I'fear it’s;:’er true. O plague on you Janet, for ye’reue father o’t.an I’m fure te die in bearing c’t.Then witty Eppie was fent for, as file was(houdie; and fhe fand a’’willie’s wame,i) be fure about it. Indeed, co’ Eppie, ye’relie firfl man e’er I ffw wi’ bairn before1 how ye’ll bear it, I dinna ken ; ye ha«wally wame, well I wat; but how men bearturns I dinna kenr: but 1 would drink la’tfater, and drown it in my guts, for if men:t ance the gate o’ bearing weans them-,lives, 'hey’ii feek nae mair wives. So willierank fea-water till his gu!s .;s like to rive%lid out tie goes toeafehi .feu among the kail,M wi h the ierrihle hurl of farting, up itarrs;m-ukin beh r.d him, who thought, it wasjiot. W illie t-xing « r jump o’tr tne dike,fnought it vyas a .h.id ‘brought forth, andan dinae rin to ths hills to be a Pa^an. S(jwillie grew better every day thereaher, bein*brought the bed in the kail-yard; but hi;daughter brought to bed fume months after:which was the cauieof thecloilor’s niiltake.,Now wife willie had a daughter calletRolling coughing Jenny, becaufe flie fpok;thick, fix words at three times, half fenfehalf nonfenfe, as her own records wi'l fiil"bear wttnefs. She being with child, wa.dtliver*d of a fine daughter; and all th<iwives in the town cried out, Be-go laddieit’s jult like its ain father, Lang Sandy Talonwe ken be irs nofe; for Sandy had a ver].great muckle red nofe like a lobfter’s taebowed at the point like a hawk’s ntb, ancSa«tly himfel* faiJ, that it was furely hisor fome other body’s, but he had ufcd a’ hisbirr at the getting o’t, to try his abilitiesbeing the firit time e’er he was at fie a bullnefs before ; and when he had done a’ marcou’d do at it* faid it was nonfenfe; an fliamcfa’ him but ha wad rather ro w his boat rountthe bafs an’ back aga'm, or he’d do the liksagain: For wife willie gade wutle at thtwean, and faid it had mair ill nature in’;than the auldeft wife about the tow*; it piflLthe bed, aud fhit the bed, Ikirled like a wildcat, and kept him frae his night’s reft ; anti:a’ the auld haggs about the town ca’d himSandy the bairn’s daddy ; and a’ the yoar£PART II.I g'niegauky Ufli^s held out their finders and) cried, Tie-hie, hie, Smdy, the K rk willI kitt'e your hips for that; end a her theblear-ty’d bell-man came bladdering about( the burock meal, fitnimoned him and her[ before the halv band, a C mrt was held in1 the Kbk on Saturdav-morning ; and all the1 herd laddies round about cried, Ay, ay, Sandypay the bull-filler, or we’ll cut the cow’s tails awa'. S , poor Sandy fullered fadly in the| flefh bcfidt | the penalty and Kuk-penance.But wife willie had pity on them, and5 gade wi them to the Kirk Court, what£ learned folk calls the Selfion. Jenny wasis firft called upon-, and in Ihe goes, where a’Si the haly band w:as convened, elders and* younger deacons, and dog-pavers keepingf the door, the cfcnkardelt carls that could be| gotten between Dyfart and Dub} fide, whitei heads and bald heads fitting wantin’' bonnets,1 wi* their white-headed Haves and hodden-Mefs John fays, Cone away Jannct,f we’re waiting on you here.MiniHer.— Now, Jannet; where was this| child gotten, you mult tell us plainly.Jannet.—Adeed, Sir, it was gotten amongJ the black Hanes at the cheeko’ the crab-hoies.Mefs John Hares at her, not knowingI the place; but feme of the elders did. Then,laid he, O Jannet but the Devil was but’ywith you at that time.Jan-—A by my legs, Sir, that’s, a grea^^rgrey jockey coats about them.( 1* )o’ their ain a—! Ye mifca’ the po-or ie’feye’re tellin’ now, for the De’ii was tae thereijthat I faw, nor ony body elfe, to bid ns ddae thing or anither; we lo’ed ither unco wela lang time before that, an fyne tell’d idlerand ’greed to marry ither, like honeft folk'then might na we learn to do the thing manried folk does without the de’ii helping us ?WhHht, whifht, cried they, ye fhould b«fcourg’d faufe loon qhein it thou is, ye’rdfpeaking nonfenfe.Jan. De de’il's in the carles, for you amyour niinifters is liars, to faytt is de de’ii iwas helping Sandy and me to get de bairn.Come, come, faid they, pay down the kirkdues, and come back to the (tool, the mornfour pund, and a groat to the bell-man.The aukl thief fpeed the darth o’t firfor lefs might fair you and your bell-manbaith. O but this be a warld indeed, vvheijipoor honefl folks maun pay for making ufii-hint his back, an’ gi’es him de wyte o’ ade ill in the kintry, baftard bairns,and everthing; and if it be fae as ye fay, ye may than!the de il for that four pund and a groat I hatfgi’en ye; that gars your pot play brown, amgets you jockey coats, purl-handed larks, amwhite headed ftaves, when my father’s pr■ Hops up rough bear and blue water.The woman’s mad, faid they, for thrs nKney is all given to the poor of the parif |uJna. The poor o’the parilh, faidthat’s the gate o’t, fint a heit ye giv tjiem humm( J3 )wee pickles o’ peafe-meal; didna I fee’t intheir pocks ? An the mlnifter’s wife gae:- nae-: thing ava to unco beggars, but bids them gang1 hame to their ain patilhes; and yet ye’ll tak' filler frae poor folks for naethirg but playingthe loon a wee or they be married, an lyne| cock them up Vo be looked on, and laugh'd) at by every body : A de’ll fpeed yon an yourt juftice, Sir; Hute, tute, ye’re a’ confington mfi kke a wheen colly dogs hun ing awaja poor ragget chapnaan frae the door ! jSo out flie goes greeting and curling them a’.Sondy is next called upon, and in he goes.I Minift.—Now, Sanders, you mull tell usil Tiow this child, was j*>tten ?Sandy.—Mefs John, fir, ye haebairns o’ your ain, how did you get them ?( But your’s is a’ laddies, and mine is butI a laflie; if you’d tell nte how you got yourladdies, I’ll tell'ycu‘how I get my ialfie, anthan we’ll be baith alike good o’ the trace.The Minifter look'd at him, very angry,and then laid, Hute, tute, Sanders, lay down!l four pund an a groat, an come back the morni] to the flool an gie fatisfadlion to the congre-| gation. You had more need to be feekingT repentance for that abominable fin of un-q cleannefs than fpeaking fo to me.Sandy Then here’s your filler, fir, I’ve’j gotten but poor pennyworths ior’t, an ye tellt| me to repent tbr’t; ^ hat the auld thief need1 1 repent when I’m gaun to marry the woman,^ an than I hae to do’t o’er again every cay,lit( 14 )or there will be me peace la luc houfe; fij;iit’s nonfenl'e o my filler, repent an do’: agai#too; a b >anv adv’i e indeed, mailer MmilleitthaT’n th- wav you an yijur f Ifia) live. jI’/if IV/llifi. —K >vV, Sir, an you m ■dejlEW*r .f y mi im put them on tae b’aclcreeov till t >e .• be n irriel; they’ve luiFere|cnoug it ae time.A w II a'- veil, faid they, but they mutnarry very f>on.I true- ’ y Sandy, ye’ll be wioting mailBile v fule late ve do tor naethi- g here.Han e comes S mdy (l trying o’ hungerjye might a caften a knot on tiis lang gutsHis mither was biking peale-bannocks, uihe ge.s a lump of her leaven into hi. ni m h1Au'd thief be in your haggies-bag Sandykirk-fouk are ay greedy; ye hae been wi’ thiminider a-day, ye’d get a gnid lang grace, hmight agi’en ye meat too, filthy dog that thois, thou had the bulk of a little pye o’ mleaven in your guts, it wad a faird our SancSto his dinner, fae wad ite‘en; but an ye kee:a reekin’ houfe, and a rocking cradle toreeleven years, as I hae done, led o’ that wirferve yau yet, baggity bead itu is jpnair pi'it I bore thee now, a hear ye that my dow :The next exploit vvas an aclion at laragaind the good-mm of Muiredge, a far nrwho lived near-bv, that kept flieep and twinHis Iheep came down and broke their yardand ate up their kail; and they thought tinwKd hares belong’d to the fume man, as thtt( J5 )ran to his houfe when they were hunted; thefwine illuoaine very often about their houfesfeekiug fi(h-guts, and any thing they couldI get: So it happened one of the children fitting: eafing itfelf, one of the (Vine tnmblcd it over,i and bites a piece out of its backfule the wnole1 town rofe in an nproar ag inft the poorgrun-; kie, as they called her, and caught her and• takes her b-fore wif; willie. VV.Ilie took ani ax and cut two or three inches oft' her longrnofe. Now, favs willie, I trow I have madethee like itherfo k; thou had fic i lang mouth(before, it wad a frignted a very de’il to looki at ye, but now ye're fac’d like a little horfe<or cow. The poor fow ran home roaringall blood, and wanting the nofs; which caufed-Muiredge to warn them in before my Lord.IThen all the wives that had their kail eaten,i appeared Erft in the Court, making complaintagainft Muiredge as an ill neighbour, who(keepit black hares and white hares, an littleiwee brown-backed hares wi’ white arLs, anijloofe wagging horns; the muckle anes loups« er the dyke an eats a’ the kail, an the litilelanes wi’ the wagging horns, creeps in at ouriwater gulh holes an does the like; an whenv/e cry puftie, they rin hame to Muiredge;.'but I’il gar my colly had them by their fit,ian I’ll had them by the horn, an pu* the hairfaft them, an f- nd’em hame wanting the fkin,.as lie did wi’ Sowen Tammie’s wee Sandy,t'tor codin o' his peafe, he took sfF the poorLaddie’s coat, an fae did he e’en.A well then, my Lord, I {hall fuppofe anye were a f>w, an me fi ting dating, an youCo bite mv arfe; fudna I hae amends o’ youfor th;it ? Od, my Lo d, ye wadna hae a bitout o’ \our arle for twenty merits, ye maune’en jrarMuiredg-gie ten merits tobjy a piaf-ter to heal the poor bit wean’s arfe again: wellfaid, willie, fays my Lord but who puts onthe fovv’s nofe again ? A figs, my Lord, faidwillie. (he’s honeller lik wantin it, an {he’llbite nae maearfeswi'i ; an vehadhane a nofe,my Lord, as long as the fow had, ye’d beenobliged to ooy body it wad cut a piece af’t.A gentleman coming pad near their to wn,aflced one of their wives where their CollegeJlood i Said die, Give me a {hilling, an I’ll letyou fee both fides o’t, he gives her a {hilling,thinking to fee fomething curious ! Now,fays flie, there’s the one fide of y our frulling,and there’s the other; fo it’s mine now.P AR. T III.Now wife willie being fo admired for hisjud judgment, in cutting off the fow’s nofe,<that my Lord, in a mocking manner, made.:him burlybailie of Buck-haven, Lang Sandywas provod, and John Thrums the weaverwas dean of guild, but witty hippie had aythe cading.vote in a’ their controverfies.There happened one day a running horfeto be Handing at one of their doors, and achild going about, the horfe tramped uponthe child’s foot, which caufed the poor childto cry ! Tue mother came running in a pai->crt, crrUtg, A wtte yo;i for <. fcorfe,'i :.i ye -.-as horn ,o: a wop)an, filthy bar).»<■• Urine it .V» ti .is, cJt.njr your rnuckle:)■■■• ’lit* or nv b-iirn’s wee,h-.ue, ’ itir,’ he. hair 4©ut o* your he^U, rappiBghe ’■ 'lie bv the mane and . a lug'-, anj^mtSilo,’ his clijiti:-, crviriy, Be-^us laddie, .i’llrar you as .good i lii ta^^yor... afo-«. v/tfewiljie the bailie, an he’ll cut r.li’ ,ou;- hand,vi’ de iron lure, an ye’ll be cripph, an ganghro’ the kintrv in a barrow, or ■ n t . a fie .0.laves, like Rr b the rundv, an a -mea: pock,ibout your neck. Her neighbour wife re ar-fig what paft, cried out, O t fool tuppy,Ivhat gars you lay that a hcrl’e was born, o*a-w man, do ye think dat a borfe .as fatheripnd mother like other fo’k ? An whft way;pot ieycome to the w arid dan ? fays tne other.jO \e fool tapt'v, dinna they whalp like theijloufes; ae auld horfe hobbles on-a nidderjane’s back, an dat whalps a young horfe :■jGroIh, ■voman, it wad be ill far’d.to fee awoman fitting wi’ a voung horfe on her knee,lighting its arfe, and gi’eing it the pap.'i'he next occafion was Lang Sandy andtlo icoughing Jenny’s wedding, which tookyp three days and two nights ; my Lord andny‘Lady, and other ladies and gentlemenattended for diverfion’s fake: 'The piper of•L kcaldy and the fidier of Kinghqrn wereboth bi; den ' .y wife willie, the bride’s father;»nd it any more came to plav unbidden,iviilie iwrore they fiiouid lit unfair’d, for thefe( i8 ).twa fud get a de filler dat was to be gl'adat d*\. The dinner and dorter-meat fain F.pp e’--. College.; the dancing flood in twirings before the door. The firli day, th|duming and dangling of their heels danfdown the fea-dyke ! Some Humbled in, an«fome held by the flanes; the fidler fell in o’e;the lugs, and dru kit a* his fidle^ the ftr.ng:gaed out o’ order, and the tripes tnrn’d fafiilike pudding-fkins; fo the piper had to do a>and t' e fidler had naething to do but fup kaian pick banes wi’ the red of them.N nv, my Lord s cook was to order th;kettle, Ixit lang P-ite o'* the Pans play’d a lacprat, bv cafling twa pund o’ candle atrumithe kaii ! which made them fo fat, that fomtcould not fup them ; and the candle wickcame ay into their cutties, like fouters’ lingle:!in the dilhes ; butfome, wi’ droogeriiomachsdripped them through tlieir teeth, like ratstails, and faid, Mony ane wad be blyth o’ fiea firing to tie up their hofe wi’a pinch. MjLord and the gentry, MeL John and the clerfv/ere ail placed at the head of the tab!;, opipofi.e the bride, but would fup none of th<candle-kail; wife willie and the bridegroon'iferved the table, an cried, Sup, an a forrowto ye, for I ne’er liked four kail about myhoufe, when the fiefh came, the bride got {rani’s rumpletopick; fiie taks’t up.an wags’at my Lord, faying, Ti-hie, my Lord! v/hsan a piece is this ? O. faid my Lord, that's thetail-piece, it belongs to you bride. Na, na,J( i9 )fays fhe, Til no hac’c^ it’s ” fifh-tail. fee as itwags! it’s fii-elv a bii d’ f’me dtad bea!t0 yes, laid mv Lin’d, von are v«r ngh ; buthow come you to eat with y hit glnves on?Indeed, my Lord, there’s a reafon for dat;1 hae fcaobit hands. O iid e, I cannotbelieve that. She then pul’d i er gloveand fhow’d him ; O yes. faid I e I fee it’s fo.Acha ! out I wiib you faw mv a—, nr. L rd»j it’s a in ae hotter! O ly, «’i'e wllie, faid he,. Ivvonder youdon’t tearh vour daughter better. manners! Ah. by mv i’ae, my Lord, ye may! as loon kifs her a— I find to, faid my Lord,1 but it’s for lack of a good teacher.Tire next dilh that was prefented to thetable, was roalted hens. The bride’s portion ,. being laid on her plate, file fays to my Lord,. will ye let me dip my fowl-a— amang your. fauce ? Upn my word I will not, fays he,if it be as you tell me. Hute, my Lord, it’®nae,my a—, it’s de hen’s I mean. O but, faidhe, ’tis the fafhion for every one to eat offtheir own trencher; you may get more fauce,lean manage mine myfelf. Indeed, my Lord,I thought you Hket me better than ony itherbody. True, faid he, but I love myfelf betterithan you,bride. Deed, my Lord, Ithink ye’re:the bell bodyabout thehoufe, for your Lady’sibut a (linking pndefu’ jnde, (lie thinks that! r/e fud make de filh and de baddies alike; be-k°> my Lord, (lie thinks we can make de had-f lies a’ alike, or dat we can fhape them as dei tens does their eggs, wi’ their a—3, O bride,( 2G ) •hs, yon fr.ould not fpsak illof my L^dy,fondie hears vou vyry v. ell. Odeed, my Lord,I h-i.’ nae m no o' dat. A well then, faia he,dnnk to rae, or toem you like belt. Then,f iys t :e. bride, There’s to you a> de gh’der,a—^ o’er bead : — a eil done, laid mv Lord.Dinner bein£ over, my Lord defir’d thebride to dance. Indeed, my Lord, {’aid fne,I canna d .nee onv, but I’ll jrar my wamewafiop foment your’s, and than vve’il ,rinround about as fall’s “we can. Very weil,bride, laid he, that will juft do; we fhalinei her k Is, n^r fliake hands ; but I’ll bow,and e’ll beck to me, and fo have done.Now, after dinner and dancing, my Lordadvis’d the bride to be a good neighbour, and’gree with every body round about. I watweel, my Lord, ye ken I ne’er caft out wi.’ony body, but lang Pate o’ the Pans, an he ;had a de wite o’t; he began wi’ heiteng anmocking me wi’Sandy, de black ftanes,an decrac’J holes where de wean was gotten ; anthan it turned a hubbub an a culiey-fhangy, 'an or e’er ye could kbs iny a—, my Lord, w'ewas a bo n ither on the muflel-midden. I trow :I tell’d rum o’Randy Rib, his uncle; his ;titty, it iteal’d my larks, an drank de filler;an how ids nddder ial’d maucky muttonan mair than a’ that, faedid I e’en, my Lord. *Mv Lora !rad a fr iend of his own, who wasa captain in the armv, who came to viiit him,and hearing of the Backers’ layings and ex¬ploits, was defirous to.fee them; and my Lord■ 'ns defirous to put them in a fright, he fent his'ervaut and ordered them all, both men andwomen, to come up before his gate dire&lyo-morrow at kail-time; and all that did notcome, was to flit an remove out of my Lord’sground diredtly; which put the whole townn a terrible conlternation! Some ran to wAfewillie, to know what it meant; willir faid, it;vas before fomething, and he was hue deathivas tne word o’'., . ome what will. O, layswitty Eppie I k;n well what’s to come e’sR4un to ! .ak de men a’ fo Igers, an de wivesingoons, oecaufe they'r de bell fighters; I:?n ther-’s fomething to come on the town,tor our Nancy faw Maggy’s gaill the flreen,t was buried four weeks fince fyne. A hech,• o’ wiliie that’s a fign meal is dear in thether warld, when flic comes to this ane again;ve’!! tak our dinner afore we g e. we’ll may-ne’er c >me back again S » off they w«nt,amenting all in aero ed M\ Lord and the|aptain was looking over t e window to them,fhe c »p aincries totnem,T‘)the right about.), trood bid's v >u, my L ul, faid thev, what;is dat tn fav ? Said m Lord, Turn vonrace to Miggv’s hill, and vour a—e to the:a. This they did in all hafle. An what^ill ae do now ? fajd willie. No more, faidty Lord, bur go away home, william. O myoo ! O ny blrfnng come o’er your bonnyice, my Lord; 1 .vifh you may never die,or yet /row fick. nor nae bodv fell you;lon’re the beft Lord in a’ de warld, for wewere frightet ye was gaun to kill us a’, oi;make us fbdgers and dragoons ; ye’re wife!than a’ the witches in Fife.There was a cuflorn in Bricky-harbourwhen they get a hearty drink, that they wen;down to dance among the hoars; and twecr three of the oldefl, went into a boat to feethe rell dance : And when a burgher was admitted, there was always a dance. One dajthey admitted gly’d Rob, who was a warlocknnd had made them ail to ftop tiieir dancingand was carried eft' to make anfwer to t! iweighty matter. Gly’d Rob cried out. Noone of you (hall ftir one fit for two hoursI'll warrant you. So Robfpang'd and jump’iover the boats fever.il times and put them igreat terror! Some cried, O he’s i’ the aitfand then they all cried, they faw him hanging i’ihe air! So Rob was obliged to go bac’t< the May, and carry coals to the LightHoufe. It was reported that gly’d Rob waborn in Bucky, and that his father was willTamfon, who was banifhed for a flavc to thIfland of May, to carry coals ; he would mtake with him, becaufe he had but one eveAfter that, no more dancing was admittecbut the auld ufual way of the fcate rumpleand then drink til they were almoft blind.Upon the rood-day, four young Bucklafles went away early in the nvirning, wittheir creels full of fifli: A bit frae the tow; Ithev faw coming down a br^.e, like a mrriding on a beall; when they came near, the( 23 );d it was Tardy Tiby’s goodrnan riding on:naukin. Tibb tald the fri^htfome tlory,;d many ran to fee the poor man (a cadgerJ his afs) riding on the auld mauken. Tneters look on a!! maukins to bedevils ^ndiches; and if they fee a light of a dr aditiken, it Ills them a-trembling. The fiiherlook with difdain on farmers’daug ters,i all country Inffes; they call them mi.ck-yres, an Ih^rny-tail a j ides.1 he bucky ad and lall s, when llie' no.gather baif, ted Ibran. e ilories of ghoils,|ches, willi wi’ the wlp, and the k ipy,its. mankens. and bogus of ail for sThey think willie an th- a ilp is a fieryV'd. that leads people 'fF their road, inh r to get them arown’d in the feaT ey call Kelpy .. fl e devil, becaufe her - before h lots at fea. and frights folk.Their Stories about Fiiries are very di-jting. They fay that they dance round.s; otips and nns through the houfesu haunt, and play man) wonderful tricks,it .hev lift ruw-born bairns from theirtrs; and that none of them are faf. towith their mothers for a night or two|r t' ev are born, unlefs the mother getliir ol mtn’s breeches under their head,the firlt thr e nights atttr their delivery,y f ' •* tha’ when ttie t irits are ft glited,/ carry r lf t)»e child, and leave a oldk of w.ood in its Itead They fay. that* n one tried to burn one of thele old flocksthat the fairies had left in a cradle, when tl;• fire was put on, the old flock mounted upca cat, and got out at the lum.Maukens are looked upon by the Buckeas very unlucky creatures ; none of the'will go to fea that day they fee a maukerand if any body put a mauken’s foot inany of their creels, they think it needlefslift it that day, as it will be bad luck, eithbroken backs, legs or arms, or ill news jthe boats at f-a.Mulfel-mou’d Harry, the fcull-makdwhofe lug was nail’d to a tree near my Lord*garden, for cutting oung laughs to malacreels and fculls. He affnni’d the drefsa devil, and play’d his tricks in the" nightime, which frighted the whole town, unthe time he was catch'd by my L rd’s piptHe was fent for by the miniher. who caulshim put on the frightful drefs he ufed, witwo horns on his head! and fo the miniltrebuked him ; But Harry to d the mini lieI only Lighted my atn town, but ye frigthe wh de pari 111, by telling them to repeor bed—d. You tell me, Sir, about my Lorefaughs, which I fuffered for; but if your l|had been there, vou would not got foeafy oilfor, Sw, your lugs are as !ang as my gr||cat’s; fo I bid you farewell Sir,FINIS.