\yhe Lamb in the midft of the Throne.SERMON,U P ON Rev. vii. 17.Preached immediately before the Celebration of'the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, atDunfermline, June xo. 1735.To which is added,A Word at the Clofe of the Solemnity on theMonday.By the late ReverendMr. RALPH E R S K I N E,Minifter of the Gofpel at Dunfermline.- J glorious high throne from the beginning is the placeof our fanduary, Jer. xvii. 12.• k T OF SCOTLANDGLASGOW:’> r'r.ted for George Caldwell, Bookfeller, Paifley.M, DCC, LXXXIX.sE R M O N.L■Rev. vii. 17. For the Lamb, which is in themldjlcfthe Throne, Jhall feed them, &c.WE are met this day to celebrate the memo¬rials of the love of Chrilf, in his deathand crucifixion, upon mount Calvary. And thatour faith may look to him in the belt light, and tothe bed advantage, we are to remember, not onlywhere he once was, but where he now is : and wrewill find, we need not be afliamed of a crucifiedChrifk that was once upon the crofs, for now he isupon the throne. The Lamb that was flain, as afacrifice to fatisfy divine juflice for u^, the oncedying Lamb in the midfi: of the crofs, is now theoverliving Lamb in the midfi: of the throne. Andfrom this throne of God, where he reigns, we ex¬pect our food and provifion upon the feaft-day ; ac¬cording to the wrords of the text, The Lamb whichis in the midji of the throne, fhall feed them.From the 13th verfe of this chapter we have adefeription of the honour and happinefs of thefe thatfhall faithfully ferve, and patiently fuffer for theLord Jelus ChrifL Some interpreters think, thatihe happinefs of the faints militant, even in thisworld, is here deferibed ; fome, that it is only thehappinefs of the faints triumphant in heaven ; o-thers, make this place of feripture relate to both,and udth thefe efpecially I join ; becaufe whateverhonour and happinefs of fuffering faints is here fetforth, they enjoy the fame partly in this life, andfully in the life to come, as may appear by the par¬ticulars here mentioned.The happy perfons are fpoken of, ver. 14th,Thefe arc they that have come cut of great tribulation.' The Lamb in the Midji of the Throne. 3' Whatever relation fome think this may have to the[church of Chrift on earth, after they have efcaped; the Antichriftian bloody perfecution ; or, as others,: to the martyrs in heaven, that have fuffered untoi. death for the Lord Jefus Chrill; yet it may be faid1; of all the militant faints, who, through much trou-;ble, enter into the kingdom of heaven, and therein:are conformed to their fullering head, the Lord Je¬fus Chrift, and bear about in their body the dying of\the Lord Jefus. Many are the affiiclions of the righ-\teous, but the Lord delivers them out of them all. It'may be faid of all the faints, thefe are they that havecome from trouble to reft, from bondage to liber-Ity, from death to life, and have wajhed their robes,\ and made them •white iu the blood of the Lamb. Theperfe&ion of this purity they have in heaven ; buteven here on earth they are walhed in the b!Sod ofChrift, and clothed with the white robe of his im-i puted and imparted righteoufnefs. 'Ver. 15th, ‘ Therefore are they before the'throne‘ of God, and ferve him day and night in'his tem-c pie; and he that fttteth on the throne {hall dwell' among them.’ This fee ms to be a further deferip-ition of the happinefs of the faints both militant and{triumphant: as they are happy,j. In their Jlate, being '•walhed, juftified, and‘ fanftified, in the name of the Lord jefus, and by‘ the Spirit of their God.’2. They are happy in ihtir Jlation, being always! before th^ throne of God. The glorified faints in hea¬ven are always in that prefence where there is ful-nefs of joy ; and the fanttified ones upon earth have'this blelling alfo beftowed -upon them, they are faid\io Jit with him in heavenly places ; and it is theirjdaily work to come boldly to the throne of grace.jAgain.4 The Lamb in the3. They are happy ia their fervice\ for, theyJcrvc him day and night in the temple. Though thet'ethat are in heaven ferve him without weaknefs or•wearinefs, which we cannot here do ; yet it is theproperty of all the true circumcifion to nvorjhip Godin the Spirit and in truth, and to pray without ceaf-ing ; meditating on his law day and night, and going ito the altar of God ; to God in Chrift, the true fpi-ritual temple.4. They are happy in their company ; for, ‘ he‘ that fits on the throne (hall dwell among them.’'This points out friendfhip, fellowlhip, and familia¬rity between God and the redeemed ; which alfoChrift allows to the militant faints in part, when,upon opening the door of their heart, he comes inand fups with them, and they with him, Rev. iii. 20.ii\nd*hey are in cafe to fay, ‘ Truly our fellowihip‘ is with the Father, and with his Son Chrift, 14 John i. 3. yea, God fays, I will dwell in them,4 and walk in them, and will be their God, and4 they fhall be my people.’5. They are happy in their freedom ; and (hall befreed from all want, and all uneafinefs. From allwant; for, ‘ they fhall hunger no more, neither4 fhall they tJiirft any morefor this freedom willbe perfected in heaven, as it is commenced on earth; jas the prophet fays, fpeaking of Chrift’s fpiritualkingdom, Ifa. xlix. 10. They fhall not hunger, nor\thirji, &c. Hence fays Chrilt, John vi. 35. 4 He|4 that comes to me fnall never hunger, and he that|4 believeth in me fhall never third pointing outthe fpiritual pieafure and fatisfaction they fhall havey ■and never be altogether deprived of. From all wi- \eajinefs alfo fhail they be freed ; 4 neither fhall the#14 fun light on them, nor any heat; or, as it is injj4 the fbrecited, Ife. xlix. 10. Neither fhali the.heatjMidft of the Throne. 5S4 nor fun fmite them.’ The redeemed above areperfectly freed from all unealinefs ; and even theredeemed on earth, according to the meafiire ofS faith, fuch will be their meafure of tafe, even a~midft all things that tend to make them uneafy.Chrift fays to them, ‘ Fear not, only believe ; Fear4 not, 1 am' with you ; Fear not him that can at)j 4 moft but kill the body ; The very hairs of*your! 4 head are all numbred you may be perfectly eafy.! N thing is more uneafy than the fun in the meridi-i an regions; fo are aftliftiens and perfecutions toJ the faints, and the temptations they are attacked>1 with from earth and hell: but4 God is faithful,’ faysI the apoftle, 4 who will not fuller you to be temptedI4 above what ye are able, but will with the temp-4 ration alfo make away to efcape, that you may be4 able to bear it,’ i Cor. x. 12.6. They are happy in their provifion; becaufe:! The Lamb that is in the midjl of the throne Jhall feedli them ; hence he is faid to feed hisfiock like aJhephtYd.■ The feeding here fpoken of, imports alfo rule andj government, fuch as a ftiepherd hath over his flock.|l It is in the believing view of the provident loving1 fhepherd, the Pfalmift fays. The Lord is myJhepherd,1 IJhali not meant, Pfal. xjdii. 1.7. 1 hey are happy in their direction and conduct;I in their direClor, guide, and conductor : He foallN had them unto h-ving fountains of waters. Now, cfj thefe living waters the Lord Jefus fpeaks, asthey refpett even his people in this world, Johniv.14. and vii. 38. ‘ The water that I give, ihail be4 in him a well of water fpringing up to everiafting•4 life 5 and, out of his belly {hall flow rivers of liv-4 ing waters.’ By thefe they h* ve matter of comfortit mid ft all their crofles. Hence,They are here faid to be happy in their/w;6 The Lamb in thefor, God Jhall wipe away all tears from their eyes ;that is, all their griefs and fonows ihall be fwallow-ed up with the fulnefs of joy and confolation thatfhall be abundantly allowed them. The com¬mencement of this joy is even here, amidft all thetroubles and trials of the militant faints; ‘ For be-‘ hold, fays God, I create Jerufalem a rejoicing,‘ and her people a joy ; and the voice of weeping‘ fhall be no more heard, Ifa. l>;v. 18. And hence‘ they are fometimes filled with joy and peace in be-‘ lieving; yea, with Joy unfpeakable and full of‘ glory.’It is the firfi part of this lafl: verfe that I have ef-pecially my eye upon •, particularly, that delcriptionof our Lord Jefus Chrift, which the comments, Ihave confulted, pafs over more (lightly than I ex-pectech, namely. The Lamb which is in the midjl ofthe throne. Where we have our Lord Jefus deferib-ed, i. From his meeknefs and humility; thereforehe is called the Lamb. 2. From his majejly and au¬thority ; he is the Lamb in the midjl of the throne.What benefits accrues to his church, from hismeek and majeftic government, follows in the redof the verfe, which, if 1 have time, I may a littleinfill upon. But what I especially.propofe to fpeakto, as the Lord may affift, is, From the fweet ac¬count given us here of our Lord Jefus. And this.we (hall efiay in the following doclrinal propofition.Obsejiv. That our Lord jefus Chrifl is the Lambin the midjl of the throne of Gc*LAnd, as the Pfalmilt fays, Pfal. exxi. i. ‘ It will lift mine eyes unto the hills, from whence‘ comes my help fo let us lift our eyes to thethrone, from whetree comes our food to-day:and we may the more readily and joyfully do fo,that the Lamb is in the midft of the throne, to beilj■5:Mldft of the Throne. 7the feeder. That I may open and apply this doc-irine for our benefit, I propofe the following me¬thod.I. Speak a little of the Lamb.II. Of the throne.III. How the Lamb comes to be upon the throne.IV. What is imported in the Lamb’s being in the\nidji of the throne.V. Confider the benefit of feeding, that iffuesVom the Lamb’s being in the midit of the throne.I. We are to offer a word concerning the Lamb.This is a name frequently given to our Lord Jefusn fcripture; and he is fo called, both becaufe ofiis immaculate whitenefs and innocency, and be-aufe of his incomparable meeknefs and patience:e is <2 Lamb without blemijh, and without fpot, 1iret. i. 19. and his meeknefs was matchiefs, ofwhich more afterward : he is the l,a?nb of God, thehorthy Lamb, the Lamb that was Jlain.I (hall only here mention four periods whereine is reprefented as a Lamb.‘ 1. In his defignation from the beginning, yea,worn all eternity to be a facrifice to fatisfy divinejltftice: hence, Rev. xiii. 8. he is called 4 the Lambi llain from the foundation of the world flain de.Ietively, in the purpofe of God, before the foun-ition of the world w'as laid ; and flain typically, inl the facrifices under the law.2. In his manfejlation, when he appeared in ouriture, he is pointed out as the Lamb that wasi ‘me to be a facrifice for fin, John i. 29. ‘ BeholdIhe Lamb of God, that taketh away the fins ofe world and again, ver. 36. Behold the LambGod. To this purpofe fays the fame beloved dil-3le, 1 John iii. 5. 4 You know that he was ma-lifefied to take away our fin.’8 The Lamb in the3. In his humiliation unto death, he is reprefen-ted as the meek and patient Lamb, A&s viii. 32.‘ He was led as a Lamb to the flaughter; and as a‘ Iheep before his fhearers is dumb,fo he opened not* his mouth; which are the words of the prophet,* Ifa. liii. 7- Thus faith the Lord by the fame pro-4 phet, ch. 1. 5, 6. He was not rebellious, neither4 turned away back ; I gave my back to the fmiter,t and my cheeks to them that plucked olf the hair j* I hid not my face from fliame and fpitting.’4. In his exaltation^ or in the exalted eitate, heis in feripture reprefented as a Lamb ; particularlyRev. v. 6. ‘ And I behold, and lo, in the midft1 of the throne and in the midft of she elders, ftoodj* a Lamb as it had been flam/ &rr. This is thejplace that our prefent text hath a reference unto:and therefore, concerning it you'may obferve thedefeription given of this Lamb.(1.) As the Lamb that is in the midjl of the throne yof which more afterward. Only, you fee, in hi:exalted eflate at the Father’s right hand, he is ftilthe Lamb; change of place hath not made hinchange his name, or nature : he took our humarnature along with him; and he is ftill the meell;and lowly Lamb, though he be upon the throne!(2.) He is deferibed by being a Lamb /lain ; .Lamb as it had been Jlain. He appears with thmarks jof his fufferings upon him, to fliow that hinterceeds in heaven in the virtue of his fatisfadlionbecaufe he entred the holy place by his own bloodTIeb. ix. 12. And the virtue of the facritice he dlfered is always frefh, as if he were newly fli^u.(3.) He is deferibed as a Lamb having fevm.horns ; pointing out the perfeftion of his power tilexecute all the will of God, and to conquer all h:Henemies. This Lamb is the power of God.MiJ/i of the Throne. q(4.) He is deferibed as a Lamb having feven eyes ;1 pointing out the perfection of his wifdom, to un-j derhand all the will of God, and to do it in thei| mod eftectual manner. As he is<he Power of God,!l fo he is the Wisdom of God ; for he hath the Spiric-I of God above mcafure : therefore it is faid, The fe-I -ven eyes are the feven fpiriis of Gxod \ not feven in1 number or in nature, but in refpeCt of the diverfi-j ty of the gifts and operations of that one and eter-I nal Spirit of God : this Lamb of God, then, is heI that hath the Spirit of the Lord God upon him, for. 1 he hath anointed him ; and he is anointed, that he| may anoint. And, O may the Lamb, with theI feven eyes, look upon this afiernbly, and give eyesto us to fee his glory this day, that our hearts mayjoin iffue with the heavenly company, Rev. v. 12.I hVorthy is the Lamb that was flam, to receive powerilj and riches, and wifdom, and ftrengih, and honour,i.i and glory, and blcjfing.II. The next thing v.re propofed, was a word^ concerning the throne. Here we would (hortly con-jl: fider, what for a throne it is, and why called a) thrbne.j 1/?, What kind of a throne it is which the LambS is faid to be in the midft of ? I may anfwer. It is| the throne of God, Rev. xxii. 1, 3. There it isI cal led the throne of God and, of the Lamb ; the throneof God is the throne of the Lamb, and the throneof the Lamb is the throne of God ; it is the throneof his grace, the throne of his glory, the throne ofhis holincfs, and the throne of Xhx^juftice.1. It is called the throne of divine grace, Heb.I iv. 16. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace. Why ?I becaufe w-e have a High-priejt there; the Lamb isB in the midft of the throne. And, indeed, thep throne of gjace is nothing eife than a God inBi o The Lamb in theChrift, a God reconciled in Chrifl:, a God upon amercy-feat, fprinkled with the blood of Chrilt.2. It is called the throne of divine g/ory, Jer.xiv. 21. ‘ Do not difgrace the throne of thy glory ;‘ remember, break not covenant with us.’ Theprophet there fpeaks of the temple, and the ark init, the fymbol of God’s prefence ; which was typi¬cal of Chrift, in whom the covenant of grace Handsfall: and fo it is called the throne of glory, be-caufe all the glory of God fhines about the throne.As the. grace of God is the glory of God, fo allthe glory of God fttines in the face of Jefus Chrift:therefore,3. It is called a throne of divine holinefs, Pfal.xlvii. 8, God fitteth upon the throne cf his holinefs.Holinefs becomes his houfe, holinefs becomes histhrone, and holinefs is his throne ; there is no¬thing there, but the holy God, the holy Lamb, theholy throne; and they that are about it cry, Holy,holy, holy is the Lord of lsofts, Ifa. vi. 3.4. It is called the throne of his juft ice, Pfal.Ixxxix. 14. ‘ Juftice and judgment are the habita-‘ tion of thy throne. And Pfal. xcvii. 2. Clouds‘ and darknefs are round about him, yet righteouf-4 nefs and judgment are the habitation of his‘ throne.’ His glorious and holy throne of grace,Hands firm upon the bale and foundation of jufticefatisfied for the linner, and judgment execute a-gainft fin, in the blood of the Lamb that is in themidfl of the throne. It is therefore no hindranceor impediment to our accefs to the throne of grace,that it isalfoa throne of juftice ; but rather a fur¬therance and encouragement, becaufe there ‘ grace‘ reigns through righteoufnefs unto eternal life by‘ Jefus Chrift,’ Rom. v. 21. And, fince gracereigns there through juftice-fatisfyingrighteoufnefs,Midfl of the 'Throne. 11why then, there God may with honour meet withTinners, and there finners may with hope drawnear to God.—This is the throne of God and of theLamb.2t//y, Why it is called a throne ? The place, indie midlt w'hereof the Lamb is, is called a throne,on thel'e accounts;x. A throne is a place of powerful and majefticdory, honour, and dignity. Jefus Chriit, the Lamb,s fet in the midlt of this place, crowned with glorymd honour, Heb. ii. 9. His Father hath crownediiim King there, faying, Thy throne, 0 God, is forwer and ever.. A throne is a place of power and authority.IhrilTthe Lamb, is fet in the midft of this throne;or, ‘ All power in heaven and earth is given tohim,’ Matth. xxviii. 18. All judgment is committedhim ; and the government is upon his /boulders.3. A throne is a place of height and emincncy.jbhrifl: the Lamb, is in the midft of this place, ll'a.i. 7. ‘ 1 faw the Lord fitting upon a throne high|and lifted up ; and his train filled the temple.’ Hisfather hath fet him on the higheft throne; herhath highly exalted him, and given him a namej above every name.’4. A throne is a place of plenty ; thence the roy-bounty is communicated. Chrift, the Lamb, isthe midft of this place ; hence it is laid, Col. i.|9. ‘ It pieafed the Father that in him fhould allfulnefs dwell and again, ‘ In him are hid allthe treafures of wifdom and knowledge, all thetreafures of grace: and out of his fulnefs we allreceive, and grace for grace,’ John i. 6.5. A throne is a place of beauty as well as bounty ;is a beautiful and fplendid place. And to fee theamb in the midft of the throne, is to fee the KingB 21-2 The Lamb in thein his beauty, Ifa. xxxiii. 17. ‘ StrengthTis within‘ his- holy place, and there doth beauty fiiinethere doth glory Ihine.6. In a word, a throne is a place of pleafur.e,peace, joy, and triumph. The Lamb is in the iniditof this place : having afcended up on high, and ledcaptivity captive, Pfal. Ixviii. 18. befits triumph¬ant upon the throne, making all his enemies his foot-fool. If he triumphed over them on the crofs, as it isfaid. Col. ii. 15. how much more does he triumphover them on the throne, making all believersIharers of his joyful triumph !III. The third thing I propofed was, To (hew howthe Lamb comes to be upon the throne. I fhall tellyou in a few words, that he bdrgamedfor the throne,,he wrought for the throne, he fought for the throne,he died for the throne.1. He bargained for the throne. In the counfelof peace, betwixt the Father and the Son, it wasipromifed to Chrift, that, upon his doing and fuf-fering for his people, he fhould have a gloriousthrone, and a numerous retinue : that he fhouldfee his feed, and fee the travel of his foul, and be fa-tisfied, Ifa, liii. 10, 11. The Lamb cries out, it isa bargain that I chearfully go in to : ‘ Lo I come 1‘ in the volume of thy book it is written of me : S‘ delight to do thy will, O my God ; thy law is‘ within my heart; Pial. xl. 7, 8. Hence fays the‘ Father, I have made a covenant with my chofenpPi'al. Ixxxix. 3.2. He wrought for the throne. According tothe bargain and covenant between-the Father ami ‘him, he brought in everlajllng righteoufnefs, Dan. ix24.. he fulfilled all righteoifnefs, Matth. iii. 15. Ami,hence he claims the crown and the throne ; ‘ I have4 glorified thee on earth, I have finifhed the workMid/l of the Throne i?i thou gaveft me to do : And now, O Father, glo-4 rify thou me with thine ownfelf, with the glory‘ I had with thee before the world was,’ John xvii.; 4, 5. Thus he wrought for the throne.3. He fought for the throne. Ye may fee how: he fought,, Ifa. Ixiii. 2, 3. ‘ Who is this that‘ cometh from Edom, with died garments from‘ Bozrah ? This that is glorious in his apparel, tra-‘ veiling in the greatnefs of his drength ? I that‘ fpeak in righrtoufnefs, mighty to fave. Where-‘ fore art thou red in thine apparel ? and thy gar-‘ ments like him that tradeth in the wine fat ? And‘ on this account the Lamb fits upon a triumphantj ‘ throne, having fpoiled principalities and powers ;I * bruifed the head of the old ferpent; deftroyed thej ‘ works of the Devil; and come off the field like a# '' e victorious conqueror. Therefore the Lord faid‘ unto our Lord, Sit thou at my right hand,’ Pfal.cx. 1. where you read both of the bloody battle,and the glorious enthronement of the Lamb.4. He died for the throne : ‘ Having drunk of‘ the brook in me way, therefore did he lift up the* head,’ Pfal. cx. 7. And, becaufe ‘ he became obe-‘ dient unto the death, even the death of the crofs ;therefore God hath highly exalted him, and giv-‘ en him a name above every name,’ Phil. ii. 8, 9.When he had the crofs upon his back, he had thethrone in his eye ; ‘ For the joy that wras fet before‘ him he endured the crofs, defpifing the fhame,‘ and is now fet down at the right hand of thee throne of God,’ Ideb. xii. 2. And thus, ‘for the‘ fufiering of death he was crowned with glory and* honour,’ chap. ii. 9. Our faith then may fee and'be fatisfied how he came by the throne. But forwidening and increafing faith’s view of this en¬thronement, I proceed.14 The Lamb in theIV. To the next thing propofed, namely. Tofhow what may be imported in the Lamb’s being in.the midft of the throne. And,1. That the Lamb is in the midfl of the throne,fpeaks forth the dignity of his perfon, his fupremedeity, and equality with the Father. Though, inhim infinite love, he thought it no difparagement,at his Father’s call, to c make himfelf of no repu-‘ tation, and take upon him the form of a fervant;‘ yet being in the form of God, he thought it no‘ robbery to be equ^l with God,’ Philip, ii. 6.And his Father thinks it no difparagement to him,to call even the fulfering Lamb, the crucified Je-fus, his fellow and equal; ‘ Awake, O fword, a-* gainft the man that is my fellow,’ Zech. xiii. 7.yea, to crown him King upon his ever ladingthrone, faying to him, ‘ Thy throne, O God, is* for ever and ever,’ Heb. i. 8. O Sirs, if the Chrift-difparaging and foul-damning doctrine of Arianswere true, the Lamb would not be worthy of fucha throne, far lefs the midfl: of the throne.2. 1'hat the Lamb is in the midft of the throne,imports and fpeaks forth the height of his exaltation.Befide the natural right as God, that Chrid hathto the throne, he hath a donative right as Mediator;and becaufe, as Mediator, he hath brought in glo¬ry to God in the highejl; therefore, he is exalted tothe highed throne that his Father can give him :* I will make him my fird-born, higher than the* kings of the earth,’ Pfal. Ixxxix. 27. And now,according to his promife, ‘ Let all the houfe of If-‘ rael know aduredly, That God hath made that‘ fame Jefus that was crucified, both Lord and‘ Chi ld,’ A&s ii. 36. And being now podeded ofthe tfirone, ‘ he hath on his vedure and on his‘ thigh written. King of kings, and Lord ofMidfl of the Throne. 15* lords and the rather that it is a fcarlet robe,a vejiure dipt in blood. Rev. xix. 13, 16. to fliow,that it is the worthy Lamb that was flain that is inthe midft of the throne.3. That the Lamb is in the midd: of the throne,imports, I think, the perfection of his mediation,'and exaftnefs thereof. O but this part of the thronebe fit for him, and he fit for it! It well becomeshim to be there; he is th$ middle perfon betweeni|the Father and the Holy Ghoft, and the middleperfbn between God and man ; and it well be¬comes him to have the middle part of the throne.The Mediator and midsman having the mid ft ofithe throne, it fays, he is a perfect Mediator, a mer¬ciful and faithful High prieji, Heb. ii. 17. faithfulif.o God, and merciful to man ; true to both parties,between whom he ftands in the midft of the throne.4. That the Lamb is in the midft of the throne,’(imports the beautiful order and cqidty of his admini-ration. As the government is xtpon his Jhoulders, fot will be a juft, righteous, and equal government,’’•'I' Behold a King fhall reign in righteoufnefs; even[} the man that flijll be a hiding-place from the wind,■| and a covert from the tempeft, Ifa. xxxii. 1, 2.••''I With righteoufnefs fhall he judge the poor, and| and reprove with equity, for the meek of the earth.|1 Righteoufnefs fhall be the girdle of his loins, andfaithfulnefs the girdle of his reins,’ Ifa. xi. 4, <j.lis adminiftration fhall be fo righteous and equal,hat none fhall have occafion to complain that heiiath gone too far, either to the right-hand or to.he left-hand of the throne : no ; he will for ever■eep the midft of the throne ; and his government,jike his covenant, will be zvell-ordered in all things.i 5. That the Lamb is in the midft of the throne,linports the ciccefftbknefs of the throne of God on16 The Lamb in theevery hand. The Lamb is upon the throne of Godjand therefore there is accefs to the throne; for,the Lamb being there, clothed with his vefturedipped in blood, we may come boldly to the thronecf grace, and have Toldncfs to enter into the holicjlby the blood cf Jefus, Heb. iv. 16. and x. 19. If theLamb were not there, fuch guilty finners durd no!be fo bold as to look a juft and holy God in theface, or approach to his throne: but, O goodnews ! The Lamb being our forerunner^ we mayboldly go as far foreward, as the blood of th^ Lambhath run in like a river before us; and that is tcthe very heart and centre of the throne of God.Yea, not only is the Lamb upon the throne, whichfpeaks accefs thither ; but he is in the tnidfl. of thethrone, which fpeaks accefs on every hand, and onevery fide of the throne. If he were only placedat the one fide of the throne, it might be thoughtthere would be no accefs at the ether fde; but be¬ing in the midf of the throne, be is ready to wetccvne all comers from all quarters, faying, IVlmfo-ever will, let him come, from eaft, weft, north, or..fouth ; let him come on this fide, or that fide, or ■or directly before the throne; yea, let any poor'creature, who thinks fhame to be feen, come creep- ring, as it were, behind the throne, like the wo-,man with the bloody iffue, who came behind hini|faying. If I may but touch his garment, I fall be whole.O to get in if if were behind the throne this day ;rto get a touch of the royal robes of the La nibwhich is in the midft of the throne ! Welcome fin*ner, there is accefs on every hand of the throne, .for the Lamb is in the midft cf it. The Lamb oGod, which lies in the midft of his Father’s bo-fom, he fits in the midft of his Father’s throne. ,to welcome and receive ail comers, faying, Hin.*7Mid/l of the Throne.that cometb, I will in no ways cajl out.6. That the Lamb is in the midit of the throne'imports, that the Lamb is the centre of all the glorythat furrounds and encompaffes the throne of God,or the throne cf grace.—Lie is the centre of divinefulnefs, and of all the glorious perfeftions of God;for, in him dwells all the fulnefs of the Godhead bo¬dily, Col. ii. 9. Every attribute of God fhines glo-riouily in the face of Jefus Chriit.—He is the cen¬tre of all divine truth ; and we cannot know anyprecious gofpel truths, or myfteries, in a favingand fatisfying manner, iinlefs we know the truth ast is in Jefus, Eph.iv. 21.—He is the centre of alll\WmQ promifes, being the centre of the covenantaf grace, in whom it Hands fall, and in whom all''he promifes are, yea and amen, to the glory of God,2 Cor. i. 20.—He is the centre of all divine blef-fings ; for, God bleffes us with allfpiritual blejfingsin heavenly places, onlyiw Chrift, Eph. i. 3.—-He isthe centre of all divine grace; for, it is out of his ful-mefs that we receive, and grace for grace, John i. 16.|—Lie is the centre of all divine comfort; for, he islithe conflation of Ifrael, and he is ‘ anointed withp; the oil of joy and gladnefs above his fellows, Pfal.jklv. 7. that he may anoint with the fame oil, and'jring his people to fellowlhip with him in the fame: Spirit of joy and confolation, according to theirneafure.—Lie is the centre of all faving offices :ibeing, as a Prophet, the wifdom of God, for our il-Shumiliation ; as a Prieft, the righteoufnefs of God, forxir jujlif cation; and, as a King, the power of God,or our fanclijication,—He is the centre of all fweet-claiions ; the Saviour, the Surety, the head, theiujband, the all and in all of his people ; their lightmd life, and Jlrength, and righleoufnefs, and rock,•nd refuge, and portion.—Lie is t.he centrical place,C18 The Lamb in thewhere God and man may meet together; for, hedwells between the cherubims, on the mercy-feat,and over thefe There will 1 meet with thee, Exod.xxv. 22. Thera will I commune with thee. And nocommunion with God can we have but in him,who is the Lamb in the midft of the throne, andmiddle perfon between God and us.—In a word,being in the centre of the throne, he is the centreof all things: he is the centre of all the fins of theredeemed, for their expiation ; for, ‘ the Lord hath* laid on him, [or, made to meet in him,'] the ini-'quity of us all/ Ifa. liii. 6.—And the centre of alltheir fervice, for their acceptation ; for, we are ac¬cepted in the Beloved. Eph. i. 6. And thus he isibmeway the centre of all things; for, as all thingsare in his hands, fo all things in heaven and earthare faid to meet in him, Eph. i. 10. Col. i. 20. Andtherefore, the Lamb who is in the midlt and centreof the throne, ought to be the centre of our heartsand affe&ions, the centre of our love and delight.Thus, among other things, he'is the centre of allour provifion. Which leads to,V. The fifth thing propofed, which was, to viewthe benefit of feeding that ifiues from the Lamb’sbeing in the midft of the throne; He fioallfeed them.Whatever other pafloral care, rule, or governmentthis word imports; yet I fhall, becaufe this is afeaft-day, confider that part of his paftoral care thatis here exprefi: by the word Feed: ‘ The Lamb that‘ is in the midd of the throne fliall feed them.’ IfI were to enlarge upon this fubjeft, I might tellyou how the Lamb feeds his church and people,with the manfefiations of his glory, with the intima¬tions of his love, with the communications of hisgrwr,and with the conflations of his Spirit: but I confinemyfelf to the dodrine of the Lamb being in theMldjl of the Throne. 19inidfl: of the throne ; and therefore I fhall fpeak to|his feeding only as it relates to that doctrine. TheLamb that is in the midll; of the throne is the food;Ihe Lamb that is in the rnidd of the throne is theij'eeder; and the Lamb’s being in the midft of theihrone makes the feeding of thofe that are the fol¬lowers of the Lamb, to have the following qualities.t\ll our facramental food and provifion, this day,Inuit corne from the throne of God, and of theLamb. Therefore,1. It mud be kindly food and provifion that comesfrom that throne, fince the Lamb is in the midit of,t. The meek Lamb, the loving Lamb, that ‘ feeds| his flock like a fhepherd, gathers the lambs withI his arms, carries them in his bofom, and gentlyi leads thofe that are with young, Ifa. xh 11. Hei makes them to lie down in green palhires/ Pfal.ikxiii. 2. Ke makes them to go out and in and findbafture,' John x, 9. It is fweet and eafy, and kind-y feeding, that ilfues from the Lamb in the midftrT the throne. And yet,2. It muff be p00.1'erful feeding that comes fromi.hence ; it is from the throne of power r and, in-»leed, you will not feed to advantage this day, un-efs power come from the throne to make you takeI our food. It is the work of the Lamb in die imufif the throne, to feed by the efficacy of his grace:11 the means and minifters in the world cannotnake a foul open its mouth or heart for this food,ill power come from the throne; and yet, whent cometh, it comes fo fweetly and kindly, that[here is nothing like force or violence. The mans made as frank and free, in the going out afterdhriff, to be the food of his perifhing foul, as ifhere were no power at ail put forth in the cafe,’ower makes him eat and feed heartily ; ‘ Thy pea-C 2so The Lamb in thec pie fliall be willing in the day of thy power,'Pfal. cx. 3.3. It mult be fpiritual feeding that comes fromthe Lamb in the midfl of the throne; for his throne,his kingdom, is a fpiritual kingdom, it is not ofthis world : The jlojh profits nothing; his words ardfipitit and life. Food for the foul mull be fpirituallfood : ‘ The kingdom of God is not meat and‘ drink, but righteoufnefs, and peace, and joy iru* the Holy Ghofl,5 Rom. xiv. 17.4. It muff be plentiful provifion and feeding thatcomes from the Lamb in the midlt of the throne ^for it is a rich throne, and all fulnefs is thereJThere is plenty of wifdom, righteoufnefs, fandifi*cation, and redemption; abundance of all forts.Here is wifidom enough, for the moft ignorant}righteoufnefs enough, for the molt guilty; fianBi^fication enough, for the molt filthy; redemption e.inough, for the moft ruined ; comfort enough, forthe moft forrowful; fiirength enough, for the weak*elt; ‘ They fhall be abundantly latisfied with tha‘ fatnefs of thy houfe,' Pfal. xxxvi. 8. O the plen¬ty that is about the throne ! Plenty of divine penfeBions to feed upon, when viewed in Chrift. In¬deed,the mildeft attributes of God,out of Chrift, willle fight; but the moft terrible attributeilof God, in Chrift, are a pleafant feaft; even jujitice, holinefs, and truth. Here is plenty of promificxto feed upon, while the performance is delayed*Every thing in Chrift is a feaft; his names, andnatures, offices, life, death, refurre&ion, afcenfion.interceffion ; his merit, his Spirit, his word, hisflefli, his blood, and his victory.5. It muft be fuitable food that comes from tbitquarter ; for, the Lamb, being in the midlt of thrthrone, will diftribute equally and fuitably. illMidfl of the Throne. nijcannot pofiibly tail and mifcairy, by giving toomuch, or too little: being in the middle of thethrone, and the middle perfon between God and|man, to communicate, what is fuitable for God to;jgive, and fuitable for man to have, no more andi|no lefs does he communicate, becaufe he is theI Lamb in the midft of the throne. And, indeed, asja key is fuited to a lock, fo is Chrilt’s fulnefs to our: wants. We are difeafed, he is a pbyfician ; we arelofl, he is a Saviour ; we are debtors, he is a furety ;4 we are dead, he is life ; we are blind,he is eye-falve ;1 we are naked, he is clothing ; we are troubled, he isreft; are we bewildered? he is a guide: are we inj danger ? he is a guard: are we benighted ? he is a[fun : are we afjaulted? he is a Jhield.—Who inheaven or earth can thus fupply our wants, healour wounds, bear cur burdens, fweeten our af-flictions, fubdue our enemies, as Chriftr O fuit-i| able feeding to the foul,is here in all cafes!6. It mutt be joyful feeding an<5 provilion that3 comes from the Lamb in the midft of the throne ;I for the throne is a place of joy and triumph. Here|l nmft be the choiceft cheer, amidft the choiceft com-:.j pany; God, and Chrift, and angels, and faints,p There is as much fweetnefs in Ghrift, as there isI fulnefs and fuitablenels: he is the fountain of fweet-1 nefs his mouth is molt Iweet, his prefence is molt1 fweet, his fruits are molt Iweet; / fat down under1 his fhadow with great delight, fays the church, andIbis fruit was fwcet to my tafte. Song ii. 3 Here arethe fweet rivers of living waters, that drive awayall death and forrow, as it follows here in the text.17. It mud he free provifion and feeding that comesfrom the Lamb in the midfl of the throne. Thereis nothing to pay about a throne ; this would be adifgrace and difparagement to the prince that pof-23 The Lamb in thefeflfes the throne j fo here, all is to be had freely.The fined: feaft is always the freed:, Ifa. Iv. i. Thelegalids, that cannot feed upon Chrift and his righ-teoufnefs freely, but only on their own works, andduties, they feed upon ajhes: the legal preacher,that cannot ofi'er Chrilt freely, is like the unnatur¬al fathers, that, when their children afk bread, givethem a Jione; when they alk a fijh, give them afcorplon. What is our bed: performances but fcor-pions, ferpents, ilones, yea, poifon to them thatmake them their foul-food ? Nothing can feed thefoul but Chrid:. Rabfhakeh threatned to make allthe people on the ’wall to eat their own dung, 2 Kingsxviii. 26. the legal preacher accompliihes this threat-ning, in a fpiritua! fenfe; our bell works are butdung ; I willfpread the dung of your facrifices on yourfaces, even the dung of your folemn feafts. Eut, OSirs, here the fined and fweeted fealt is the freed;from the throne of grace proceed all blefiings freely.8. It mud be durable provifion and feeding thatcomes from the Lamb in the midd of the throne:for he ever lives upon the throne, and his throneis for ever and ever ; and therefore everlading foodcomes from thence, and food that nourilhes to e-verlading life : / am the living bread, that came downfrom heaven, fays Chrid ; if any man eat of this bread,he Jhall live for ever, John vi. 51. Here is provifionfor eternity, Labour not for the meat that perifheth,fays Chrid, but for that meat that endures to ever-lafling life, which the Son of man Jhall give unto you,John vi. 27. What a fool was he, that filled hisbarns, and then faid, Soul, take thy reft, thou haftgoods'laid up for many years ! while God faid to him.Thou fool, this night thy foul [hall be required of thee.But, O what wifdom were it to lay up for eternitythis day, that death may not be able to rob you of •Midfl of the Throne 23your ftore, b.ut that ye may have it all before yourhand ! The Lamb that is in the midft of the thronelives for ever there to feed; he lives for ever towake interccjfion; he lives for ever to make provi¬sion : they have everlafting food, who have theTamb that is in the midft of the throne to feed them.—Thus you fee what fort of feeding is to be had un¬der the throne of the Lamb, and who it is that muftcover our table this day, even the Lamb in the;midtt of the throne ; he hath mounted the throne,ito be a feeder, and to let down blelfings to theJfootftool.VI. The lad thing propofed was the application.Is it fo, that our Lord Jefus is the Lamb in the, 1 midft of the throne ? Hence we may infer thefe fol-;lowing particulars;1. Surely we need not be ajhamed of a crucified".Chri/l, nor our Chriflian pajfover this day, the.Lamb that was facrificed for us. Since now the, Lamb is upon the throne, and in the midft of thethrone, the Ihame and reproach of the crofs is wip-; ed away, with the glory and fplendor of the throne.!iWe need not be afhamed of the crofs of Chrift,| who is now' in the midft of the throne. Let noneIdefpife thofe that efpoufe the caufe and intereft of(the Lamb, whatever hardlhips they may be broughtj under before courts, councils, and judicatories onearth: they need not be alhamed to go forth untohim, without the camp, hearing his reproach. Thegreat apoftle Paul fays, God forbid 1 fhould glory,fave in the crofs of our Lord Jefus Chri/l. O believ¬er, it is ©ur greateft glory to be bearing his crofs,who is now wearing the crown ; to be followersof the Lamb that is in the midft of the throne.2. Hence we may learn, that the church of Godis fafe, fmee the Lamb that is their head is in the24 The Lamb in ihemidft of the throne. Believers in Chrift are happy and fafe •, their head and hufband, their Loreand King, is upon the throne: the militant church,are in no great danger whildthe fighting remnanthe hath the government. Perhaps there are fomehere, like Eli, whofe hearts are trembling for thark of God, and the work of God at this day, whefo many axes and hammers are lifted up againft thicarved work of the dodrine, worfnip, diiciple and,government of God’s houfe: but let this be matter of joy fo their hearts, that the Lamb is in themidft: of the throne ; and therefore, as he rides iitJacob to the end of the earth, and over-rules all da-image done to his heufe, fo he will make it appearjlin the iflue, that according to his word, Upon allthe glory there floall be a defence, Ifa. vi. 5odly, Renee we may learn, that the enemies ofChrift may have a quaking heart, fince the Lamb,whom they defpife, is in the midfl of the throne.His Father, that fet him on the throne, hath faidPfal. Ixxxix. 23. ‘ I will beat down his foes before‘ his face, and plague them that hate him. The‘ heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing;the kings of the earth fet themfelves, and therul-»* ers take counfel againft the Lord and his anoint-;e ed, faying, Let us break their bands, and calk4 their cords from us. But he that fits in heaven* fhall laugh, the Lord fhall have them in derifion ;*having^ his king upon his holy hill in Zion, he will* break them in pieces with a rod of iron, and fhall« dafh them in pieces like a potter’s veffel, Pfal. ii.4 1,-9. The Lord reigns, let the people tremble;4 He dwells between the cherubims, let the earth4 be moved,’ Pfal. xeix. i. The Lamb being in themidft of the throne, is matter of terror to the ene¬mies of his glory; for he his upon the throne0rMidjl of the Throne. 2 5'power, and the Lamb will be a lion to tear themto pieces.4. Hence we may learn, there is a fare foundationSlaxd for the faith and hope of life and jujlijication bythe blood of the Lamb. Since the Lamb is in the|mid(l of the throne, the throne of grace is the doorof hope; and that our hearts may be raifed andilifted up to a lively hope, the Lamb that was Hamis raifed and lifted up to the throne. Did he rifeagain for our juftification ? and does his refurrec-ition feal upon our confciences the fufficiency of his'death, and the acceptablenefs of his righteoufnefsunto God ? Much more may our faith and hope be.confirmed herein, that he is exalted to the midftof the throne; for his Father had never put fo muchhonour upon him, had he not been infinitely well-pleafed and fatisfied with his obedience unto thedeath. We may now read the dream, that Jacobhad at Bethel, Gen. xxviii. 12. Behold a ladderfetupon the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven ;the ladder is the Lamb ; the foot of the ladder wasfixt in the midlt of the earth when he was here ina humbled eftate ; and now the top of the ladderis fixed in the midft of the throne ; all the roundsof it are compleated, that we may afeend by thisway from earth to heaven.5. Hence v/e may learn, what good reafon thereis for having a high ejleem of Chrijl, fince God hathfo highly exalted him, to the very midft of thethrone. O believer, fhould not Chrift be veryhigh in our valuation, when God hath fet him fohigh ! No wonder then that it is faid, If any manlove not, nor efteem cur Lord Jefus Chrijl, let himbe Anathema Maran-atha; that is, accurfed untilour Lord come, 1 Cor. xvi. 22. Woe will be to themthat will not put honour upon him, whom GodD26 The Lamb in theput fo much honour upon, and that as our Redeem¬er and kinfman !6. Hence learn, that the throne of God needsnot be terrible to us, fmee the Lamb, the meekLamb, is in the midlt of the throne; Tinners neednot fear to go to the throne of God as long as theLamb is there. If unbelief look toward the throne,it views it only as it is the throne of God, and fofills the foul with fiavifli fear, and frightful appre-henfions: but true faith views it as the throne ofGod and of the Lamb ; and the view of the Lambin the mid ft of the throne, raifes fame joy, hope,and pleafure in the midft of the heart. Why,there is meeknefs, as well as majefty; gracej aswell as grandeur, about the throne, becaufe theLamb is there.7. Hence we may learn what ground there is toexpert the great God to be prefent in the midji of tiethis day, becaufe the Lamb is in the midft of thethrone. We would have no ground to expeft thatGod would be with us on the footftool, if Chriftwere not with God upon the throne. Chrift pro-mifed, upon his afeending to the throne, that he.would be with his people, faying, Lo, 1 am withyou always-, Mat. xxviii. 20. He promifed, whenhe went up to the throne, he would fend down hisSpirit, If I go away, l will fend him, Johnxvi. 8. .Therefore, if he be, by his Spirit, in the midft oftis this day, it is becaufe he is in the midft of thethrone. It is eafy for him to be bolh fitting glori- joufy in the midft of the throne, and at the fame time !walking gracioufy in the midft of the golden candle- 1fticks. Rev. ii. 1. He ia both the bleft Acyc?, theword of God; and the bleft Immanuel, God with us.The [even fpirits are faid to be before the throne. TheSpirit of God is one, but his gifts, operations*, and 1• -Midfl of the Throne. 27ij influences are various: and the Lamb, that is inthe midft of the throne, hath the Spirit to give;land, having faid that he will fend him, O let usi|look to the throne, and thence exped the Spirit,(according to his word.8. Hence we may learn what is the mark of a. \worthy communicant, namely, if he be a true believ¬er of this doctrine, that the Lamb is in the midltliof the throne. Let a man examine h'nnfef upon this,\and fo let him eat. I alk not if you fay you believe,iior think you believe; but I call and injoin you,Itry if you truly believe that the-Lamb is in thei midfl; of the throne. For helping you to this fearch,you may confider two things, namely, what viewyou have of this truth, and what virtue vou find“ jijin it.(1.) What view have you of this truth ? If youitruly believe it, then you view it with approbation.Is your heart fatisfied that the Lamb is in the midfl::bf the throne ? Do you cordially approve of the[[Father’s fetting him fo high ? Did it ever fill yourpeart with joy and fatisfadion, and with fome fe-11tret pleafure and exultation, that God hath putjfuch honour upon Jefus ? And have you thus re¬ceived this truth in the love of it, and in the fweet-|iefs of it? O did ever your heart leap as it wereivithin you to think that the throne of God is alfo|he throne of the Lamb, and fo a throne op'en toliyou to come boldly unto by the blood of the Lamb,hat encircles the throne like a rainbow ? How doesrour heart Hand afteded to this truth ? With theicart man believes unto rightcoufncfs, Rom. x. 10.(2.) What virtue have you found in this truthtor leading you to enthrone Chrifl, as the Fatherjiath done ? As the Father hath fet the Lamb injihe midfl; of the throne of glory; fo have vou fetD 22 8 The Lamb in thehim in the midd of the throne of your heart? Ishe, that is in the midft of the throne of God, inthe midft of the throne with you ? Surely, to themthat believe he is precious, [or, an honouras theword may be read, x Pet. ii. 7. And they put thishonour upon him, even to fet him in the midft ofthe throne. O my dear friends, let me tell you,!that by this you may try and examine yourfelf, andprove your ownfclf, 'whether Chrift be in you; ifhe be in you at all, he will be in the inidft ofthe throne. You are not fit for a communion-ta-1ble, and at your peril be it if you go, and yet fome|other thing than Chrift have the throne of yourheart: Iffelf be in the midft of the throne, if yourlu/is be in the midft of the throne, Chrift is not inj!vou. It is true, the heart of the believer, whilefiere, is not quite free of fin, and felf, and theworld: they may fight for the thyone, and manytimes they may feem to win the throne of theirheart: but, fure I am they never got peaceablepoireifion of the throne of their heart. The believ¬er is free from peace with fin, though he is never ,free from war with fin in this world : his league:with it is broken, he can never confent to its ruleand government any more ; and hence, whenever!fin ufurps the throne, like Adonijah, then the be¬liever enters his proteft againft it before the Kingof kings, faying. Lord, haft thou not faid, that So* jiomon Jhall reign? Haft thou not promifed, that!grace Jl:all reign, and that/fw Jhall not have the dominion ? jO down, down with this ufurper ; and let ChrifcJhave his own proper room and place, which is theinidft of the throne. Hath virtue come from thethrone of the Lamb to enable you to enthroneChrift in the midft of your heart ? Hath he theithrone of your efteem, the throne of your delight,Midjl of the Throne. 29Ithe throne of your affection? Felt you ever any..virtue coming down from the throne of Chriff, to.dethrone fm, and to draw your heart up to thethrone of God ? Did you ever find fo much gracedefcending from the throne, as to make your heartsjaicend to the throne? And, is it the view of the.Lamb’s being there, that fnes your heart, andintakes it flame upward to the very midff of the1 throne where he is ? Again,I Lajlly, Hence we may learn the duty of finnersthat hear this doctrine of the Lamb’s being in thelimidft of the throne. I think it is your duty, yea,ifure I am it is your duty, to come andthe Lamb(in the midft of the throne, to come and match withij the Lamb, and then to come to the marriage fup-■]per of the Lamb.(i.) It is your duty to come and fee this great1 fight, the Lamb that is in the midff of the throne.i.i If the queftion be, Where is the Lamb ? The anfwera is. In the midft of the throne. But, if the que-I ft ion again be, Where is the throne^ that e.ve may fee‘Ht, and the Lamb in the midft of it? We anfwer,I God’s throne of glory is properly in heaven ; buthis throne o?grace is really on earth, as well as inI heaven ; it is erected in the church, and in this% gofpel difpenfation ; declaring that God is in Chrijl/i reconciling the world to himfelf. A God in Chrift isa throne of grace every where, and a glorious thronel| every where is the place of ourfandluary ; Jer. xvii.12. Hence, when the apoftle fays, Let us come bold-ly to the throne, he does not mean locally climbingup to heaven, but bclievingly approaching to Godin Chrift, as held forth in the gofpel of his grace.(Why then, as Chrift is in the midft of the throne,fo the throne is in the midft of this houfe.Queft. What will we fee, if wc come and fee the3° ’The Lamb in theLamb in the midjl of the throne?Anfw. You willJee the throne of God \% patentto Tinners, becaufe the Lamb is there; and thatthere is accefs with boldnefs from all quarters, at e-jvery fide of the throne, becaufe the Lamb is in the'midft of it. The blood of the Lamb encircles thethrone, and fprinkles the mercy-feat; and there¬fore, guilty Tinners may come, through thk guilt-expiating blood. Here you will fee the molt dread¬ful attributes of God divelted of all their dread andterror, and appearing amiable. Infinite holinefsand infinite jultice are awful attributes, and bothare upon the throne of God, but the Lamb is inthe midlt of them; holinefs is gratified, juftice .‘si’atisfied, every attribute is glorified ; ‘ Mercy and i‘ truth meet together, righteoufnefs and peace kifs* each other,’ and all harmonioufiy confpire, be¬caufe the Lamb is in the n ’dlt of them. The mild-eft attributes would be dreadful to fmners, if theLamb were not in the midft of them ; but the moftterrible attributes are amiable and lovely, whenyou fee the Lamb in the midft of them.Here you will fee the moft terrible difpenfationsof God fmiling in your face, when you fee the Lambin the midft of them ; for, though clouds and dark- ,nefs are round about him, yet righteoufnefs and judg- |;?nent are the habitation of his throne. He that rides .in heaven by his name Jah, and makes the clouds his |tchariots, as he fits in the midft of his throne ; fohe fits in the midft of the cloudy and dark difpen- Ifations of our day, to order and over rule. Black :J|clouds are over the church of Scotland, and the |government, as it is in the hands of men, is all in Idiforder and confulion, and turning upfide down; J,but, if you fee the Lamb in the midft of thefe dil- |penfations, you will fee that the government is uponMidjl of the Throne. 3 £hfhoiddcrs; and that not only jujlice and judgment arehe habitation of his throne, but thzt juftice andjudg-lent fit with tnercy and grace; and that God hath letime glorious defign on foot, however terrible to;is enemies, yet merciful to all the followers of theitamb.' In a word, here you will fee all theory of God,yhen you fee the Lamb in the midft of the throne.) the throne of glory is a throne of grace, becaufehe Ljamb is there ; the throne of juftice is a thronef mercy, becaufe the Lamb is there; the thronei f infinite holinefs is acceffible by guilty finners, be-iilaufe the Lamb is there. O come and fee.I I (2.) It is your duty to come and match with the,amb. O finner,*\vho hath been married tcv theevil hitherto, married to your lulls, married tote world ; O man, woman, whether old or young,fill you come and be the bride, the Lamb's icife ?the word is, Rev. xix. 7. Let none dare to gothe marriage-fupper of the Lamb, to the com-anion-table, until once they have given theirart and hand to the Son of God, and joined inirriage with the Lamb; and, O may this be airriage-day. It is a great part of our work tourt a bride for the Lamb, and then to lead her toe table •, and, O may drawing power come frome throne, to draw out many hearts after him ! Oiner, the Son of God, the Lamb of God, is comecourt your heart, faying, My fon, give me thy\ t\eart; and he is come to offer himfelf to thee,. tan; to thee, woman, faying, ‘ Behold me, be¬hold me; come to me, that you may have life/’Vhat for a match would you have ? Would you beindl married, and happy in a hufband to all eter-[>$ ity ?i 1. Are you for an honourable match, a royal32 The Lamb in thematch ? O hei'e is the King cf kings ; the Lamb illthe midft cf the throne ; the head of all principalitiesand powers.2. Are you for a rich and opulent match ? Herais the Lamb in the midfl of the throne, in whomare hid unfearchable riches, and all the fidnefs of theGodhead; everlahing treafures of grace and gloryj3. Are you for a bountiful match ? O there is!none like the Lamb in the midlt of the throne foij :a generous fpirit, willing and ready to lay out all :his riches, that out of his fidnefs ye may receive andgracefor grace.4. Are you for a beautiful match ? Behold the|Lamb in the midlt of the throne, the King in his]beauty; he is white and ruddy, and altogether love Aly : no wonder, for he is the brightnefs of the Fa¬ther's glory ; all the glory of God ihines in his face. 'Some of God’s glory in the works of creation, the 1fun, moon, and ftars •, fome of it in the work ofprovidence : but all the glory of God is here. Hetis the temple of God, and there doth beauty JhinepPfal. xevi. 6.5. Are you for a loving, as well as a lovely match?) 1Behold, the Lamb that is in the midlt of the throne *is a mirror of love, without all dimenuon : c O the 5‘ heighth and depth, the length and breadth of his ■‘ Jove !’ He loved and prayed for his enemies that 8murdered him; and how then mull he love his"friends that will match with him ? Again,6. Are you for a beloved match, who is valued!and efteemed of all whofe love and elleem is worth!the regarding ? O ! the Lamb in the midft of the*throne is beloved of all the holy angels, they ad-, “mire and adore him ; he is beloved of all the iaints|:in heaven and earth, they fay, This is our belovedlie is beloved of God the Father, who fays, ‘ ThisflMidjl of the Throne 334 is my beloved Soft, in whom I am well-pleafed:he is hated of none but the devil, and his wicked1:; crew.7. In a word, are you for an immortal match ?I Well, here is the Lamb that is in the midfl of theIjthrone, be lives for ever and ever : 4 I am he that4 was dead, and am alive, and behold, I live for e-4 vermore/ The belt friends here in this worldiiare mortal, and may leave you in a moment; buti the Lamb is the King eternal and immortal: he livesjfor ever, and he can make you live for ever. O'mortal worms, whofe bodies will belaid in the dufi:in a few days or hours, and who have nothing but,a thin wall of flefli between you and eternity ; areye for a match that can abundantly jointure youifor another world, and portion you for eternity ?Is this a defpicable bargain ? Are your lufts and i-tldols, and perifhing vanities of a world, a better'bargain ? Nay, you dare not fay it for your life..This very offer of Chrift, accept or rejedl it as youwill, is worth ten thoufand worlds.8. Are you for a match that can pay all yourdebt to law and juftice, that can fupply all youriv/ants, that can heal all your difeafes, that can bearJail your burdens, fandtify all your croffes, fweeten(all your afflictions, fubdue all your enemies, ma~nage all your concerns, and make you happy forever ? Then come and match with the Lamb thatI is in the midfl of the throne: a greater offer can¬not be made to you than this mod glorious King,upon the mod glorious throne. O great propofal!Wonder, men, and angels, at this gofpel-offer!Be aftoniffled, O heavens and earth! If fuch a match-jjlefs match be offered and rejected, all the angels andjifaints that are about his throne will cry, Shame up-you for ever, that reiedt and refufe fuch a bar-Ef, 34 The Lamb in thegain; and we mud lay, Amn; evemull be upon you. What was the Gadarenes blafrphemy, but their preferring their fwine to ourLord Jefus Chrift, when he was upon the earth„and not yet upon the throne ? But greater is yourblafphemy, O fmner, if you prefer your fwiniftijlufts to our glorious Lord, now exalted to thcithrone. What! Prefer the fwine, that are in themidd of the dung-hill, to the Lamb in the middof the throne! O bale, brutilh, mad, and devililhblafphemy!I hope, by this time there are none hearing me,,but are fo felf-convicted, that they fee they mud.'condemn themfelves if they rejeft fuch an offer as ismade to them ; and therefore, I take witnefs upon,it, that when the Lamb, that is now in the middof the throne of grace, will be the Lamb in themidd of the throne of judgment at the lad day, yemud own that the fentence of condemnation, thatlhall be then pad againd you, will be jud and righ¬teous, if you dand to your refufal: therefore, tho*this Ihould be a rejected offer to-day, yet it fhallredound to the honour of the Lamb at the greatday, infomuch that the condemnation of you willbe the judification of him; your own confcienceswitnefs, that he will be juft ’when he /peaks, andclear when he judges, and adjudges you to hell anddamnation, becaufe of your neglefting the great Hfalvation, and rejetting the offer of the great Sa- jviour, the Lamb that is in the midd of the throne. HBy way of anticipation, the tribunal is now erett- jed before-hand in your bofom, where God’s depu- Hty, confcience, fits as the judge; and there theLamb is affolized as free of your blood, and thefentence comes forth that your blood is upon yourown head. Well, I hope your judgment is per-rlading (hamMidfl of the Throne. 35; fuaded of this, that fuch an offer is made to you,; as is worthy of all acceptation : but, O Sirs, fincei the judgment may be informed and gained, whilenyet the heart is not engaged ; therefore, tho’ faith! come by hearing what a wmrthy Lamb is offered to(you, yet bare hearing will not do without the heartidrawing power of the Spirit which is before thethrone: and therefore, this being the pure cryjlal, river, that proceeds out of the throne of God and ofkhe Lamb, Rev. xxii. 32. that this river of the draw¬ing influences of the Spirit may run down among. you, I will put the belt.rope in your hand that Itknow for bringing dowm this blefling; it is evenidle Lamb’s own fweet promile, John xii. ^2 And7, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all menyinio me. Where obferve, 1. Theconcern-kd. 2. T\\t promife. And, %. T\\e condition oi it.[T.J The perfons concerned, all men. There istan all among linful men, that Chrifl: the fecondAdam hath to draw to him ; thefe were given of thefather to him, and they Jhall come, John vi. 37.Yea, thefe he mujl bring to him, John x. 16. Hemuff draw them, and they (hail hear his voice.(But, left any fhould hereupon lay, perhaps I amnot among the number of the fecond ■ dam’s all,::hat he is to draw ; perhaps 1 am excluded by theecret counfel, or hidden decree of God from allternity. Therefore, 1 tell you what may fatisfyfou fully upon this point, that the Lamb, that nows in the midft- of his Father’s throne, was in thetnidff of his Father’s counfels from all eter¬nity; the Lamb was at that council-table; there-ore, let not the thoughts of the eternal decree be(errible and dreadful to you ; for the Lamb wasjtpon the concert, and therefore nothing paft at that:ouncil to the prejudice of any poor fmner, thatE 23 5 The Lamb in thewould venture his foul upon the blood of the Lamb.It was concerted there that the ground and objeftof faith fhould be no hidden counfel, no paff de-cree, but a prefent openly declared truth ; namely,that the Lamb is in the midji of the throne ; and that•whofoever ‘ivill, might come to him; and him thatcomes, he will in no wife cajl ovt: and, therefore,if you venture your life and falvation upon theLamb that is at prefent upon the throne of grace,you have nothing either pall or future to fear ; nebther any paft decree, or any future wrath: andnow, by this free offer of Chrifl to you all, Godis accomplifhing his glorious decree, that yo'u maybe for ever happy upon your acceptance, or forever inexcufable upon your refufal.[[2.] The promife, which is, I will draw all menafter me. In cafe any fliould fay, there is indeeda free offer, and a good bargain ; but I have a re¬luctant as well as a deceitful heart j I cannot em¬brace the offer, nor bring up my heart to dolewith Chrift, and make up the match. Why, hereis the encouraging promife, I will draw; that is,1 will fend the Spirit to draw out your heart, tomake it rife and mount, like a flame, towards thethrone, where the Lamb fits. But, if I do notfind this drawing power, what encouragement haveI to look for it? Why, obferve,[3.] The condition of this promife. If 1 be lifted^) frnvi ihn rnrfh • nnf nn nnrprtafn rnnrlifion. de-vp from the earth ; not an uncertain condition, de¬pending upon us: but a fure condition depending.'upon himfelf: If i be lifted up, or, when T am liftedvp. Now, the condition is performed ; Chriff wras*not only lifted up upon the crofs, but now he islifted up to the throne. Now, Chriff faid, John8. ‘ If I go to the Father, I will fend the Spi*':XVI* ritIf I £0 to the throne, I will fend down the/Tvlidft of the Throne. 37iSplrit in bis drawing influences. And now, mayvou not plead, Lord, the condition is performed,t the time is come, thou art lift up, thou art uponi the'throne ; therefore let the cryftal river run downout of the throne of God, and of the Lamb?” Isthis the language of your heart and foul? Lord,draw, draw ; thou that art the Lamb in the midft(of the throne, draw my heart to thee, according to;lthy word. Is your heart burning or beating, fay-,11 ing, “ O I am the blacked;, the vileft fmner thatever matched with fuch a glorious one; but yet Ifind my heart beating and burning within me, fay¬ing, O to be drawn, O to have the Lamb that isin the midft of the throne to ere£t his throne in themidft of my heart, and to rule there in the midftiof his enemies, and to be all in all to me, for, vuif-. dom, righteonfnefs, fancltfication, and redemption toime ?” Why then, we may fay, your heart is thethrone, and the Lamb is in the midft of the throne.iiAnd, if the drawing power of his Spirit hath made;up the match between him and you, we are war-sranted to lead you next to the marriage fupper,1 where the Lamb that is in the midjl of the thronefoall(feed you.Word at the Clcfe of the Solemnity on the Monday.1 ’ /Tpl EFORE you go, I (hall conclude this folem-n13 work in two words, one directed to the enc-I mics of the Lamb, and another to the loners of the:Lamb in the midft of the throne.Firjl, To you who are enemies to him. If theLamb be in the midft of (he throne, then let fin-\qaxs JIqoP to him j O fink down at his feet, and be38 The Lamb in thecontent to be ruled by him: if you be ruled byour lufts, and by your fins, you put Chrift out o;his throne in eff'edt, and put your lufts in his roomiO fmner, confider how you crofs and contradict;the great God by this means: he hath laid of Chrifti1Pfal. ii. 6. I have fet my King, upon my holy hill;have fettiim in the midlt of the throne : and, ardyou faying to your lufts. Be ye king over me ? Maniwill ye live in ftn, and fin againft him that is in the Imidft of God’s throne ? If a thief cut a purfe when;the judge is upon the bench, and the fentence ready ito pafs againft him, he is worthy to be hanged : jChrift is on the bench, in the adt of judgment; Oman, beware of finning againft him : be afraid, O ;ye that are enemies to the Lamb, Enemies in yourminds by wicked works ; It is hard for thee to kick a-gaiti/l the pricks : can you harden yourfcif againflGod and profpcr? Nay, you lhall he lb far fromprofpering in this way, that the Lamb in the midft:of the throne hath a rod of iron, to break and dafhyou to pieces. Ccnfidcr this, ye that forget God. Th e ■Lamb will in a little v/hile be a lion, to tear you to'pieces, when thereJha'lbe none to deliver. The Lambis yet upon the throne of grace, inviting you ; butit may be this is the laft invitation you ftiall have,till you fee him upon a judgment-feat: and whatIhall be the effect of thefe gofpei-offers ye have en¬joyed ? Thefe folemn feafts will not always laft, andperhaps death will dafti you down to the dull beforeanother occafion of this fort. Can you find in yourheart to let Chrift go, and this occafion over, with¬out getting any good of him ? Are you contentthat falvation hath come fo near you, and you lofeit for ever ? If not, O will ye take the firft oppor- |tunity of retiring to fame corner, and crying to theLamb in the midft of the throne, to come and drawMidji of the Throne. 39i you, and backthefe precious means with his power¬ful bleffing ! He that is in the midfl: of the thronehath been fetting his throne in the midll of Dun¬fermline, and faying, Behold, the tabernacle of Godis with men! O let him not lift his tent till you betaken in !Again, O crown\\\m king whom God the Fatherhath crowned ! O might this be his coronation day.!A day of efpoufals with the Lamb in his coronation-day : Go forth, 0 daughters of Zion, and behold king’Solomon with the crown wherewith his mother crown-ed him in the day of his efpoufals, and in the day of thefladncfs of his heart. Song iii. 11. Happy day, ifyou could go away, faying, Such a day, at thecommunion of Dunfermline, Chrift was crowned'•■•jiving ; I beheld King Jefus with the crown where¬with his Father crowned him, and faw that the Fa¬ther fet him in the midlt of the throne, and I help-fed to put the crown upon his head; for, throughgrace, I fet him in the midll of the throne of myheart, and crowned him King there : I found in myiieart to dethrone fin, and enthrone Chrifh O isGhrilt crowned King here! Hath no virtue comerom the throne to draw my heart, as the adamantiraws the iron? The clucking of the hen makes.he chickens to run: gofpel-preaching is the voiceif the Lord Jefus; and much of this you have hadhefe days bygone. O have you run under hislivings? See what Chrift fays to Jerufalem, Matth.cxiii. 37, 38. ‘ O Jerufalem, Jerufalem, how oftwould I have gathered thy children together, evenIJ as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings,- and ye would not! Behold your houfe is left un¬to you defecate.’ May we hope that God will notet leave Scotland defolate, but that Chrill will befrowned King in the church of Scotland ? though40 The Lamb in theh£ be robbed of his royalties, and notwithfianding of all unwarrantable ads that tend to the hurof his government, he is in the midft of the throne2c//y, To you that are the lovers of the LambI offer fir ft a word of comfort, and then a word oadvice![!.] A word of comfort. Surely, though the earthfioould ke removed, and the mountains be caft into themidft of the fea; tho’ external governments fhouldbe dilfolved and overturned, yet, while the Lambis upon the throne, all fhall bejuled to advantageunto all the lovers of the Lamb- What though yeihould fee minifters of Chrift f if pended or dcpofeitfor adhering to the teftimony of Chrift, and endea*vouring to keep a good confidence in an evil day ?Though they fhould be reproached and perfecuted;yet ftill there is a river, the ft reams whereof makeglad the city of God; and ftill there is this greatground of comfort, that the Lamb is in the midftof the throne, and the cryftal river proceeds fromthe throne of God and of the Lamb : and upon this:throne the Lamb rules righteoufly and mercifully,,thpugh men rule never fo unjuftly and cruelly ; andin a little there will be an end of man’s rule and go¬vernment, but the Lamb’s dominion is for ever andever. God the Father hath proclaimed that he is:the everlafting King, faying, Thy throne, 0 God,,is for ever and ever. Ihe followers of the Lambhave unfpeakable ground of comfort in Chrift,,whatever trouble they have in the world, In theworld ym fnall have 'tribulation, but in me you Jhall-have peace, be of good chear •, l have overcome toeworld, and I am now upon the throne •, and ye at.laft fhall overcome, and fit down with me on mythrone.Here is comfort a gain ft deferiion. Though the1i.Midft of the Throne* 41Lord may hide himfelf, and feem to be far away,yet ftill it is food to your faith, that the Lamb is iathe midft of the throne ; and, as he never defertsdie throne, fo he will never leave you, nor forfakeyou : Why ? the promifes are all yea and amen in himthat is ever upon the throne, to make out his word.2. Here is comfort againft the crofs. While youhave the crofs upon your back, you may keep thethrone in your eye, and you may be fure of pityand favour thence, becaufe the Larab is there whowent from the crofs to the throne.3. Here is comfort againft the power of fin, cor¬ruption, and fpiritual enemies, be they never fobowerful: for the Lamb is upon the throne ofoower, and all power in heaven and earth is given toMpim 5 and he is concerned, in honour, to deftroyIthefe enemies.4. Here is comfort againft want and weaknefs.lYour ftrength lies in the Lamb,5. Here is comfort againft TimesJ'hhave been, when there was tyranny in the ftate o-ver the confciences of men ; thefe were reckonedivery evil days: but, when there is tyranny in theichurch over the confciences of men, it is in manyllrefpefts worfe : for church-perfecution is a kind oflafphemy; it is in the name of God to perfecutehe people of God. But yet here is comfort in thisafe, that church tyranny cannot keep the throne ;ball the throne of iniquity have fellowfhip with thee,hick frameth mfchief by a law? No, no; Theyrather themfelves together againfl the foul of the righ-'eous, and condemn the innocent blood, Pfal. xciv. 20,1. The Lamb will keep the midft of the throne,|.md tread down his enemies in due time.What would make a church government glori¬as and eminent? When the Lamb is kept in theF42 The Lamb in themidfl: of the throne, and when his fpiritual kingdomis kept diftintt from the temporal kingdoms of thisworld. The government of the church is quitemifmanaged when the Lamb is put out of thethrone, and temporal heritages are made the foun¬dation of fpiritual privileges: as for example, whenin the choice of pallors to any congregation, whichis a fpiritual privilege relating to immortal fouls,and heritors of this earth, the heirs of a little yel¬low dull, have fuch a privilege and preference gi¬ven them by virtue of their temporal inheritance,as if thev were lords of the confciences of men, andlords ever God's heritage; furely their fecular ad¬vantage in a world can entitle them to no fpiritualprivilege in the houfe of God, no more than anearthly inheritance can entitle them to heaven; butto give them a dominion over the fouls of men inthis matter, is a practical dethroning of the Lambfrom the midft of the throne. Church-officers them-felves are difeharged to ufurp fuch a dominion as jto be lords over God’s heritage: it is unlawful forthem to obtrude pallors upon a Chriltian people,without their confent; far lei's have they power toput fuch a dominion over mens confciences into thehands of earthly fuperiors. How can they give |what they have not themfelves ? In fpiritual mat¬ters w7e are to own no man lord, but he that is Lordof lords, the Lamb that is in the midjl of the throne.Church-government is quite overturned, when the ;throne of Chrift’s fpiritual kingdom is polfell byany other in this w'orld but only the Lamb.6. Here is comfort againll death. Death ffiall jnot reign, becaufe the Lamb is in the midjl of the\throne, and liveth for ever and ever, and hath thc§keys of hell and of death ; and therefore death ffialibe fwallowed up in victory.Midjl of the Throne. 4 37. Here is comfort againft the fear of judgment;hat awful day needs be no terror to the lovers ofhe Lamb, becaufe when the fiery tribunal will beeredted, the Lamb will be in the nudlt of the throne;...ind the friends of the Lamb will be received intolis bofom, while all his enemies will Hand trem-oling before his throne,8. Here is comfort in the view of a long eternity,that the Lamb, that is for ever in the nridji of thethrone, will for tvtx feed you, and lead you. unto Irv-\\ng fountains of waters, and wipe away all tears fromyour eyes. O 1 who can tell the happinefs of thehigher houfe, the glorious feeding and leading youall have there, the everlafting and everlivinp-fountain of divine confolation, wherewith ye (hallbe for ever refvefhed 1 The fountain is God, andibis glorious attributes; Chrift, and his inexhaufta-.'ble fulnefs; the Spirit, and his everlafting conlol-Ijation ; a glorious Trinity : God, who is now a pro-mifing God, will then be a performing God. Wholean tell the fweetnefs of that blefhng, his wiping a-\\way all tears from your eyes ? He that hath a bottlefor your tears now, hath a napkin to wipe thetaall away then ; for, ‘ ye (hall obtain joy and glad-‘ nefs, and forrow and flghing (hall flee away.’Secondly, I offer a word of advice to you. OSirs, il the Lamb be in the rnidlt of the throne, 1.Then be quiet amid It all the male-adminiffrationsof men, amidlt all the mifmanagements of church¬men and church-judicatories; becaufe, though mencannot be juftifled in their church ruining projects,yet the Lamb being in the midft of the throne,hath a juft, holy, and foverei^h hand in order¬ing thefe evils, when he hath a controverfy to pleadwith us. Let us fee the hand of God in leavingmen to themfslves, to rob the church and peopleF 344 The Lamb in theof God of their rights and reformation-privileges. 1"What was the hand of Pilate againlt Chrift, thdj tcruelleft adt that ever was done ? Why, it was thdhand-of God himfelf: for it is faid, when Pilatd ■fpake, faying, ‘ Do ft thou not know that I have (‘ power to crucify thee, or to fet thee at liberty ?’Chrift anfwered, 4 Thou couldft have no pov/er ex-‘ cept it were given thee of my Father.’ Even fofay I, church-men or church-judicatories, courtsor aflemblies, could have no power to break do\vnany of the carved work of reformation ; no powerro harm the liberties of God’s people in chufingtheir paftors; no pow'er to obtrude minifters on !Chriftian congregations, willing to chufe faithfulpaftors; no power to pafs fentence againft fuch asoppofe that fpeat of defection, except it were giv¬en them of our Father; and therefore let us bequiet and fober: we have fome other thing ado thanto break out in a paflionate refentment againft poormortal men, the finful inftruments of the church’sconfufion and diforder. When Shimei railed uponDavid, Let him alone, fays David, may be the Lordhath bidden him. The Lord, for our trial and chaf-tifement, perhaps hath required fome in our day,go and tread upon the rights of thofe people ; goand reproach and perfecute, fufpend and depefethefe rainifters for keeping a good confcience in anevil time: I fay, it may be the Lord hath bidden ;yea, ‘ Is there evil in the city, and the Lord hath‘ not done it ?’ Is there evil in the church, and the *Lord hath not .done it ? No, no ; well what of that ?This does not jollify evil inftruments, no ; but itfays, we are to oe fober, and lay our hand uponour mouth, and bear the indignation of the Lord,bccaufe zee have fared againft him: we are to be \dumb, and not to open our mouth, beecmfe he does it.• ^Mlift of the Throne. . 4^The Lamb in the niidit of the throne hath the go-, vernment upon his {boulders, and he is righteoufly,: ordering and over-ruling thefe matters for the pro¬fitable trial of his people, and the glorious praifei of his name in the ifiue ; The wrath of man fhall'■praife thee, and the remainder of his wrath wilt thou; ref rain, d he Lord hath his own time and way.ofreifraining his enemies, and his own time and wayiof reforming his church ; and when the Lord (hallappear in his glory, he will build up Zion. Some-itimes he fees fit to appear in his wrath, and then hedots our the wrath of man, the enmity of man, to1 the breaking down of Zion, and of his carved work :jbut there is another time, when he fees fit to ap¬pear in his glory, and then to reftrain the wrath ofman, and reform his church. And fince he is ap¬pearing in his wrath in our day, letting out thereins of man’s wrath, to the ruining of reforma-jtion-work ; O be fober and humble, and dependqiipon him as the Lamb in the midft of the throne,,'who hath the reins in his hand, to let them out, orlitake them in, as he pleafes. Inftruments are butsihis word, his hand, by which he does what heip. :afes, Pfal. xvii. 13, 14. ‘ Deliver my foul fromif the ■wicked, from men' which are thy hand, Of Lord.’ Think not then the government is out ofriChrift’s hand, when men are doing many fad things,■find giving many heavy blows to the work of God ;'po, no ; men are but his hand ; and it is the handa! God tnat ,uftiy and righteoufiy is lying heavy1 jpon his people. Look above men then; you have'not to do with them ; there is a turn of mattersuft as he is pleafed to turn his hand ; the Lamb isn the midft of the throne, and in the midft of hea¬vy clouds hanging over Scotland ; therefore look0 him, that, he may turn away his wrath ; Pfal. ii.'46 The Lamb in the12. ‘ Kifs the Son, left he be angry, and ye perifti* from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a‘ little : Bieffed are all they that put their truft in‘ him.’ Again,2. L" it is only the Lamb that is in the midft of jthe throne, O then be tender of thefe that are fol- 1lowers of the Lamb, while they are yet upon thefootftool, and not yet let down with Chrift uponhis throne. They are in danger in an evil day,wherein they are called to give teftimony againft ithe evils and corruptions of the day, to go alide to ;fome extreme or other. There are many thoughts.of heart, and many needlefs words among people 1at prefent about the manner of teftifying. Some ,are accufed as if they were too far foreward; o- jthers are accufed as if they were too far behind, in ;their teftimony. Well, not to meddle with mif-takes people may be under, it may be both thefeare true : for, who can fay, I am clean, and do ;not err toward the right or left-hand, when theywould appear for Chrift and his caufe ? But, O betender of the militant followers of Chrift. I hope 1you will remember, that it is only the Lamb thatis able to keep the midft of the throne ; and, 1 ho;v» rwe are all willing to fubfcribe to this that this horl:nour only belongs to him, that he was able to keep 9the midft of the way to the throne, without going jto one fide or other: none but himfelf was ever-1able to do fo ; let him alone have the glory.3. Let me fay to you that have become the bridea jthe Lamb’s wife, if the Lamb be in the midft of jthe throne, O then fee that ye frequent the throne.. I:What more inviting argument than this can there J.be, that the Lamb is in the midft of it ? And theTfarther foreward you approach, fo much the better. INever reft till you be in the midft of the thrones jMidjl of the Throne. 47where the Lamb is. You may have boldnefs togo as far in as the Lamb goes ; and you will findthis the mod pleafant exercife in the world, andthe mod profitable alfo : for grace and mercy is a-nbout the throne of grace ; it is a mercy-feat, be-icaufe the Lamb is there.4. O believer, if the Lamb be in the midd ofthe throne, even the Lamb, your head, your huf-:band, fee that you live upon him by faith ; let theLamb be your feeder, and the Lamb your food e-ivery day; and beware you do not difgrace yourhonourable hufband. Are you married to theLamb in the midd of the throne ? We read thatBathfheba faid to her fon, Prov. xxxi. 4. It is notTor a king, 0 Lemuel, it is not for a king to drink wine,inor for princes Jlrong drink. So it is not for believersin Chrid to drink and tipple, to fwear and cheat;(ilihe gracelefs world do fo. But, O believer, have:^'0u been at a communion-table? Hath the Lordigraced and honoured you with marriage to theLamb in the midd of the throne ? Do not difgracetyourfelf •, it is below your rankt fee that you liveh becomes thefe that are matched and married toprince of the kings of the earth.I remember fame years ago, after certain difput-slng in the church about the doflrine of the gofpel,! ive had a folemnity here, on which occafion I wased to fpeak of xhz fubflance of gospel-doctrine,'Thrift given of God to be a covenant of the people ; and| row I am obliged to remark, that after fome con-:endings, or rather in the midd of fome contend-ngs in the church about the government of hisroufe, I have been led, without any defign in me,rut only as the text was pleafant to my own foul,:o fpeak of the very fum and centre of ecclesias¬tical government, the Lamb in the midjl of the4s The La/hb in the-, &c.throne. I remember, at that former occafionLord was prefent by his Spirb, and gave evidencethereof unto many ; and now, I hope, at this oc-eafion alfo there hiail be foine bleflings dropt downfrom the throne. And, O to be going away fromthis place, with this truth fealed upon our heart,concerning the Lamb’s being in the mid ft of thethrone! Come what will, there is no fear of thefollowers of the Lamb, and the fufferers for him ;for, the Lamb is in the midji of the throne