THEVISION of ALMET.A NDNo LIFE Fleasing to GOD, thatis not Useful to MAN.TWO EASTERN STORIES.Fortune her gifts may variously dispose;And these be happy called, unhappy those ;But Heaven’s just balance equal will appear,While those are plac’d in Hope, and these ip bear.Thus God and Nature link’d the gen’rai frame,And bade Self-love and Social be the same, >POPE.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,77>e Art of Growing Rich.I 'v- AAN INSTRTCTIVE. TALE.FALKIRK tPrinted by T. Johnston.1 827%:i mr.d-L *3v!.1W x. ' ■ ■EC \ ■ ' ^} » • •.■ tXima- v.. ft: • Mi"•:. ' i > ■* •: ■ , ■ i'<- ii- * ■' ijt v : ' l-iid**' ■’.Vi >'V";,ju i- JVii <■? /Hit 1ST * ' J. &C 1’’ ^-.v>‘ ■ , tv* • .'■<■  1 .♦I■ - * .v .ttr.rti j »_TIfEVision of Aimst, &e.ii LMiiT the Darvise, who watchedr" the sacred lamp in the sepulchrethe Prophet, as he one day rose upam the devotions of the morning,ihich he had performed at the -rate ofie temple, with his body turned to-ards the east, and his forehead uponj.e earth, he saw before him a man inidendid apparel, attended by a long re- *|nue, who gazed steadfastly on him, withI look of mournful complacency, and: eined desirous to speak, with unwillingM offend.1 The Dervise, after a short silence, ad-nnced and saluted him with the calmjgnity, which independence confers up-i humility, requested that he wouldveal his purpose.4“ AJmet,” said the stranger, “ thotseest before thee a man, whom the hancof Prosperity has overwhelmed withwretchedness. Whatever I once desirecas the means of happiness, I now possess ;but I am not yet happy, and therefore 1despair. I regret the lapse of time, because it glides away without enjoyment ;and as I expect nothing in the future binthe vanities of the past, I do not wisfthat the future should arrive. Yet Itremble lest it should be cut off; ancmy heart sinks, when I anticipate th<moment in which eternity shall close evesthe vacuity of my life, like the seas uporthe path of a ship, and leave no trace?of uiy existence more durable than thefurrow which remains after the waveihave united. If, in the treasures of thjwisdom, there is any precept to obtairfelicity, vouchsafe it to me : for this pur ^pose I am come ; a purpose which I yet:fear to reveal, lest, like all the former, rsliould be disappointed.”Almet listened with looks of astonishment ind pity, to this complaint of ^being, an whom reason was known to b«|'a pledge of immortality : but the serenity.5of his countenance soon returned; andstretching out his hands towards heaven.“ 'Stranger,” said he, “ the knowledgewhich I have received from the Prophet,I will communicate to thee.” As I was sitting once at the porchiof the Temple pensive and alone mineieyes wandered among the multitude thatiwas scattered before me; and while I re¬marked the warines and solicitude whichwas visible in every countenance, i wassuddenly struck with a sense of theircondition. Wretched mortals, said I,to what purpose are you busy? If toproduce happiness, by wrhom is it en-jjoyed? Do the linens of Egypt, and| the silks of Persia, bestow felicity onthose who wear them, equal to thei wretchedness of yonder slaves, whom ],isee leading the camels who bring them?Is the fierceness of the texture, or thesplendor of the tints, regarded with de¬light by those to whom custom has ren¬dered them familiar5 Or, can the pouterof habit render others insensible of pain,who live only to traverse the Desert : ascene of dreadful uniformity, where abarren level is bounded only by the ho-6rizon ; where no change of prospect norvariety of images, relieve the traveller \from a sense of toil and danger; ofwhirlwinds, which in a moment maybury him in the sand ; and of thirst !which the wealthy have given half their ipossessions h) allay ? Do those on whomhereditary diamonds sparkle with. unre¬garded lustre, gain from the possessionwhat is lost by the wretch who seeks them ■in the mine; who lives excluded fromthe common bounties of nature ; to Iwhom even the vicissitude of day andnight is hot known ; who sighs in per¬petual darkness, and whose life is onemournful alternative of insensibility andlabour ? If those are not happy whopossess in proportion as those are wretch¬ed who bestow, how vain a dream is the 1life of man ! And if there is indeedsuch difierence in the value of existence,how shall we acquit of partiality, thehand by which this difference has been imade ?“ While my thoughts thus multlpled, ,and my heart burnt within me, I becamesensible of a sudden influence from above. .—The streets and the crouds of Mecca .[FT7i disappeared. I found myself sitting onUhe declivity of a mountain, and per-:| ceived at my right hand an angel, whom11 knew to be Azoran, the Minister ofReproof. When I saw him I was afraid.I cast my eyes on the ground, and was'about to deprecate his angef. when hecommanded me to be silent.‘ Almet,’ said he, ‘ thou hast devoted! thy life to meditation, that thy counseli might deliver ignorance from the mazesof error, and deter presumption from theprecipice of gilt: but the Book of Na-iture thou hast read without understand¬ing: it is again open before thee ; look■up, consider it, and be wise/“ I looked up, and beheld an inclo-isure, beautiful as the Garden of paradise,put of a small extent. Through theEniddle, there was a green walk ; at thend a wild desert: and bevond, impene-rable darkness. Tiie walk was shadedwith trees of every kind, that were co¬hered at once with blossoms and fruit ;Innumerable birds wrere singing in thefibranehes ; the grass was intermingledjwhich flowers, which impregnated theibreeze with fragrance, and painted the7path with beauty. On the one side floweda gentle transparent stream, which wasjust heard to murmur over the goldensands that sparkled at the bottom ; andon the others were walks and bowers,fountains, grottos and cascades, whichdeversified the scene with endless variety,but did not conceal the bounds.“ While I was gazing in the transportof delight and wonder on this enchant-ing spot, I perceived a man stealing along |,the walk, with a thoughtful and delibe¬rate pace, his eyes were fixed on the ,earth, and his arms crossed on his bosom ; ;he sometimes started, as if a sudden pang ,,had seized him ; his countenance expres¬sed solicitude and terror ; he looked roundwith a sigh, and having gazed a momenton the desert that lay before him, heseemed as if he wished to stop, but was -duelled forward by some invisible pow¬er : His features, however, soon set¬tled again into a calm melancholy; hiseyes were again fixed on the ground, &he went on as before, with apparent re¬luctance, but without emotion. I wasstruck with this appearance, and turninghastily to the angel, was about to enquire,I9what could produce such felicity in ai bein^-< surrounded by every object thatj coul/$2 gratify every sense ; but he pre¬vented my request.The Book of Nature,’ said he, ‘ isI before thee, look up, consider it, andbe wise.*“ I looked and beheld a valley be¬tween two mountains that were craggyand barren : On the path there was noverdure, and the mountains afforded noshade : the sun burned in the Zenith,and every spring was dried up : But! the valley terminated in a country that1 was pleasant and fertile, shaded withi woods and adorned with buildings. Ati a second view, I discovered a man inI this valley, meagre, indeed, and naked,I but his countenance was cheerful, andI his deportment active : He kept his eyeI fixed on the country before him, and(looked as if he would have run, but thathe was restrained as the other had beenimpelled by some secret influence : Some¬times, indeed, I perceived a sudden ex¬pression of pain, and sometimes he step-f ped short, as if his foot was pierced bythe asperities of the way, but the spright-IInets of his countenance instantly re¬turned, and he passed forward \v|<houtappearance of repining or complaintid,I turned agaiii toward the angelujinr-patient to enquire from what secret soQl cehappiness is derived, in a situation sodifferent from that in which it mighthave been expected ; but he again pre¬vented my request : . ‘ Almet,, said he, !‘ remember what thou hast seen, and letthis memoiial be written upon the tabletof thy heart. Remember, Almet, thatthe world in which thou art placed, isbut the road to another, and that hap¬piness depend not upon the path, butthe end : The value of this period ofthy existence is fixed by hope and fear.The wretch who wished to linger in the ■garden, who looked round upon its Ij-, mits with terror, was destitute of hope,and was perpetually tormented with thedread of losing that which he did enjoy.vThe song of the birds had been repeatedtill it was not heard, and the flowershad so often recurred, that their beautywas not seen ; the rivers glided by unno¬ticed, and he feared to lift his eye to the11prospect, lest he should behold the waste; that circumscribed it. But he that toiledthrough the valley was happy, becausei he looked forward with hope. Thus,| to the sojourner upon earth, it is of little.i| moment whether the path he treads bestrewod with flowers or with thorns ifi he perceive himself to approach those[regions, in comparison of which thethorns and the flowers of this wildernessi lose their distinction, and are both alikeimpotent to give pleasure or pain.; What then has eternal wisdom un-i equally distributed ? That which canmake every station happy, and withoutf which every station must be wretched,i is acquired by virtue ; and virtue is pos-i sible to all, Remember, Almet, the visionr which thou hast seen ; and let my wordsf be written on the tablet of thy heart, that[ thou mayest direct the wanderer to hap-Ipiness, and justify God to man/While the voice of Azoran was yetsounding in my ear the prospect vanishedfrom before me, and I found myselfagain sitting at the porch of the templeThe sun was gone down, the multitudewas retired to rest, and the solomon quietof midnight concurred with the resolu:tion of my doubts to complete the tran¬quillity of my mind.“ Such, my son, was the vision whichthe Prophet vouchsafed me, not for mysake only, but for thine. Thou hast notfound felicity in temporal [.things ; andtherefore thou art disappointed. Letnot instruction be lost upon thee ; butgo thjr vray, let thy flock clothe thenaked, and thy table feed the hungry ;deliver the poor from oppression, aad letthy conversation be above. Thus shaltthou rejoice in Hope, and look forwardto the end of life, as the consummationof thy felicity.”Almet in whose breast devotion kindledas he spake, returned into the Temple,and the stranger departed in peace.No Li FE PLEASING to GOD,is not USEFUL to MAN.thatAN EASTERN STORY.- r , . „ . , ^ V ' ‘It pleased the mighty sovereign AbbasCarascan, from whom the Kings ofthe earth derive honour and dominionto set Mirza, his servant over the pro¬vince of Tauris. In the hand of Mirza,the balance of distribution was splendidwith impartiality ; and under his admini¬stration the weak were protected, thelearned received honour, and the diligentbecame rich. Mirza. therefore, was be¬held by every eye with complacency,while every tongue pronounced blessingsIon his head. But it was observed thathe derived no joys from the benefitswhich he diffused, he became pensiveand melancholy ; he spent his leisure insolitude ; in his place he sat motionlessupon a sofa ; and when be went out,his walk was slow, and his eyes werefixed upon the ground. He applied to14the business of state with reluctance:and resolved to relinquish the toils of jgovernment of which he could no long- (er enjoy the reward.He therefore obtained permission toapproach the throne of his Sovereign;and being asked what was his request,he made this reply.“ May the Lord of the World forgive ithe slave whom he hath honoured. IfMirza presume again to lay the bountyof Abbas at his feet. Thou hast givenme the dominion of a country, fruitfulas the gardens of Damascus ; and of acity, glorious above all others, exceptthat only which reflects the splendour ofthy presence. But the longest life is aperiod scarce sufficient to prepare fordeath : All other business is vain andtrivial, as the toils of emits in the 'pathof the traveller, under whose feet theyperish for ever: and all enjoyment isunsubstantial and evanescent, as the co¬lours of the bow that appear in the in¬terval of a storm. Suffer me, therefore,to prepare for the approach of eternity;let me give up my soul to meditation ;let solitude and silence acquaint me with15i the mystexii s of devotion j let me forgetI the world, and by the world be forgot¬ten, till the moment arrives in whichthe vale of eternity shall fall, and I shallbe found at the bar of the Almighty.,,Mirza then bowed himself to the earth,and stood silent.By the command of Abbas it is re¬corded, that at these words he trembledupon that throne, at the footstobl owhich the world pays homage : Helooked round upon his nobles ; but everycountenance was pale, and every eye wasupon the e§rth. No man opened hismouth : and the King first broke silence, -after it had continued near an hour.“ Mirza, terror and doubt are comeupon me : I am alarmed, as a man whosuddenly perceives that he is near thebrink of a precipice, and is urged for¬ward by. an irresistable force ; but yet Iknow not whether my danger is a realityor a dream ; I am as thou art a reptilecm the earth : my life is a moment; andeternity, in which days, and years, andages are nothing, eternity is before me,tor which I should also prepare : But bywhom then must the Faithful be go-16verned ? By these only, who have nofear of judgement ? By those alone whoselife is brntal, because, like brutes, theydo not consider that they should die ?—Or who, indeed, are the Faithful ?—Are the ousy multitudes that crowd thecity, in a state of perdition ? And is thecell of the Dervise alone the gate of Pa¬radise ? To all, the life of a Dervise isnot possible : To all, therefore, it can¬not be a duty. Depart to the housewhich has in the city been prepared forthy residence ; I shall meditate the reasonof thy request; and may He who illu¬minates the mind of the humble, enableme to determine with wisdom /”Mirza departed ; and on the third day,having received no commands, he againrequested an audience, and it was granted.When he entered the royal presence, hiscountenance appeared more cheerful ; hedrew a letter from his bosom, and hav¬ing kissed it, he presented it with his righthand.“ My lord,” said he, I have learnedby this letter, which I received fromCosrou, the Iman. who now stands beforethee, in what manner life may be bestf'17(improved. I am enabled to look back•il with pleasure, and forward with hope ;ill and I shall now1 rejoice still to be the! shagowr of thy power at Tauris, and tr!>keep those honours which I so latelywished to resign.”—The King who hadI listened to Mirze with a mixture of sur¬prize and curiosity, immediately gave theletter to Coseou, and commanded that itshould be read. The eyes of the courtwere at once turned on the hoary sage,whose countenance was suftused with anhonest blush ; and it wns not withoutsome hesitation that he read these words.“ To Mirza, whom the wisdom ofAbbas, our mighty lord has honoured withdominion, be everlasting health ! W hen1 heard thy purpose to withdraw theblissings of thy government from thethousands of Touris, my heart waswounded with the arrow of affliction,and my eyes became dim with sorrow.But who shall speak before the king,w'hen he is troubled ? And who shallboast of knowledge, when he is distressedby doubt ? To thee I will relate the eventsof my youth, which thou hast renewedbefore me ; and those truths which they18taught me, may the Prophet multiply tothee.“ Under the instruction of the phy¬sician Aluazer, I obtained an early know¬ledge of his art. To those who weresmitten with diseases, l could administerplants, which the sun had impregnatedwith the spirit of health. But the scenesof pain, languor, and mortality, whichwere perpetually rising before me, mademe often tremble for myself. I saw thegrave open at my feet : I determinedtherefore to conterapfiate only the regionsbeyond it, and to despise every acquisitionwhich I could not keef£ I conceived anopinion, that as there was no merit huta voluntary poverty, and silent medita¬tion, those who desired money were notproper objects of bounty ; therefore mo¬ney was despised. I buried mine in theearth ; and renouncing society. I wan¬dered into a wild and sequestered part ofthe country ; my dwelling was a cave bythe side of a hill: I drank the runningwater from the spring, and ate such fruitsand herbs as I could find. To encreasethe austerity of my life, I frequentlywatched all night, sitting at the entranceof the cave, with my face to the east,resigning myself to the secret influencesof the Prophet, and expecting illumina¬tion from above. One morning aftermy nocturnal vigil, just as I perceived thehorizon glow at the approach of the sun,the power of sleep became irresistable,and I sunk under it. I imagined myselfstill sitting at the entrance of my cellthat the .gawn increased, and that as Ilooked earnestly for the first beam of day,a dark spot appeared to intercept it. Iperceived that it was in motion ; it in¬creased in size as it drew near, and atlength I discovered it to be an eagle. Istill kept my eye fixed stedfastly upon it,and saw it alight at a small distance,where I now discried a fox, whose twofore-legs appeared to be broken. Be¬fore this fox the eagle laid part of a kid,which it had brought in its talons anddisappeared. When i awaked, I laidmy fore-head upon the ground, andblessed the Prophet for the instructionof the morning, |I reviewed my dream,and said thus to myself, < Cofrou, thouhast done well to renounce the tumult,and business and the vanities of life;but thou hast as yet only done it in part;Thou art still every day busied in thesearch of food ; thy mind is not whollyat rest neither is thy trust in Providencecomplete. What art thou taught by tin’svision ? if thou hast seen an eagle com¬missioned by Heaven to feed a fox thatis lame, shall not the hand of Heavenalso supply thee with food, when thatwhich prevents thee from procuring it tothyself, it is not necessity, but devotion ?I was now so confident of a miraculoussupply, that I neglected to walk out formy repast, which, after the first day, Iexpected with an impatience that left melittle power of attending unto any otherobject : This impatience, however, I la¬boured to supress and persisted in myresolution : but my eyes at length beganto fail me, and my knees smote eachother; I threw myself backward, andhoped my v eakness would soon increaseto insensibility. But I was suddenlyroused by the voice of an invisible being,who pronounced these words : ‘ Cofrou,J’m the angel who by the command of theAlmighty, have registered the thoughtsof thy heart, which 1 am now commis-i tiSIsioned to reprove. Whilst thou wastattempting to become wise above thatwhich is revealed thy folly has pervertedthe instructions which were vouchsafedto thee. Art thou disabled as a fox ?f^ast thou not rather the? powers of theeagie ? Arise, let the eagle be the objectof thy emulation. To pain and sicknessbe thou again the messenger of ease andhealth. Virtue is not rest but action. Ifthou dost good to man, as an evidenceof thy love to God, thy virtue will beexalted from mortal to divine ; and thathappiness, wrhich is the pledge of Para¬dise, will be thy reward upon earth.”“ At these words,' I was not less asto¬nished than if a- mountain had been over¬turned at my feet. I humbled myself inthe dust ; I returned to the city ; I dugup my treasure ; I was liberal, yet I be¬came rich. My skill in restoring healthto the body, gave me frequent opportu¬nities of curing the diseses of the soul.I put on the secret vestments; I greweminent beyond my merit ; and it wrasthe pleasure of the King that I shouldstand before him. Now, therefore, benot offended ; I boast of no knowledge% ' *S'),MmmkQQthat I have not recieved : As the sandsof the desart drink up the drops of rain,or the dew of the morning ; so do. also,who am but dust, imbibe the instructionsof the Prophet. Believe then, that itis he who tells thee all knowledge ^prophanc, which terminates in thyseVi^and by a life wasted by speculation, littleeven of this can be gained. When thegates of Paradise are thrown open beforethee, thy mind shall be eradiated in amoment ; here thou canst little more thanpile error upon eyror, there thou shaltbuild truth upon truth* Wait, there¬fore for the glorious vision ; and in themean time, emulate the eagle. Much isin thy power, and, therefore, much isexpected of thee. Though the Almightyalone can give virtue ; yet, as a prince,thou mayest stimulate those to benefi¬cence, who act from no higher motivethan immediate interest: thou canst notproduce the principle, thou mayest enforcethe practice. The relief of the poor isequal, whether they receive it from os¬tentation or charity ; and the effect ofexample is the same, whether it he in¬tended to obtain the favour of God or23man. Let thy virtue be thus diffused ;and if thou believest with reverence,! thou shalt be accepted above. Farewell,May the smile of Him who resides in theHeaven of Heavens be upon thee ! And; against thy name in the volume of Hiswill may happiness be written!”The King, whose doubts like thoseof Mirza, were now removed, lookedup with a smile that communicated thejoy of his mind. He dismissed the prince: to his government ; and commandedI these events to be recorded, to the endthat posterity may know, “ That no lifei is pleasing to God, but that which isi useful to mankind !”S 1THE WAY TO GROW RICH.COSMO de Medicis, Grand Duke ojTuscany, concerning whom, on ac¬count of his prodigious wealth, it wasrumoured, that he had the art of. trans¬mutation. A noble Venetian who, tho*he had but a small fortune, was extreme¬ly well recommended to his Highness24fand, by by his polite behaviour, addeddai/y to his credit in that court, one dayfairly put the question, and asked theduke if he had the philospher’s stone ornot ? My friend, said the duke, I have : Jand because I have a regard for you, Iwill give you the receipt in few words,1 never bid another do that which I can domyself; . I never put of till to-morrow |what may be done to-day ; nor do I everthink any matter so trivial as not to deservenotice. The Venetian thanked his sereneHighness for his secret: and by observ- ;ing his rules acquired a great estate. Howwell should I be pleased, if not a few ofmy readers should do the like by observ¬ing mine!