MERRY FROLICS;OR, THE COMICAL CHEATS OFS W A L P O,A NOTORIOUS PICK POCKET;AND THE MERRY PRANKS OFJACK the CLOWN.Stirling, Printed this prefect Year.THEMERRY FROLICS,OR, THECOMICAL CHEATS OF SWALPO.CHAP. I.OWALPO dreffed himfelf like a countryman, with a pair of dirty boots, and *whip in his hand, and going into Bartholo:mew fair, met with no prize worth (peakingof, he walked cut of the fair. At the entrance into the tjair he met a countrymanand faid to him, Iloneft friend, have a careof your pockets ; you are going into a curfecplact:, where there are none but rogues; ;rtchores, and pickpockets/ I am ahnofruined by them, and am glad they ha^e noipicked the teeth out of my head/ Let oivtake never fo much care of their pocketsthey’ll be fure of the money/ I am fun> th ,De\il helps them. I defy all the devils ithclk fays the countryman, to rob me of an' .thin,\ »■ thing of value. I have a broad piece, andi that I’ll fecure. So clapping it into hismouth, he went confidently into the fair.Swalpo defxred no more than to know if hehad money, and where it lay. He gives afign to a hopeful boy of his,r and giving himout fome iixpences and groats, told himwhat he fhould do. The boy immediatelyi runs, and falls, down juft before the coun-i try man, and fcatrering the money, ftartsi up and roars like a bedlamite, crying he was! undone, he muff run away from his appren-i ticefhip ; his mafter was fuch a furious fel-Ilow, he would certainly kill him. Thecountryman with other people gatheredabout, helping the boy to take the money.One of them fays, have you recovered all ?Yes, all the ft Ivor, fays the boy, but whatdoes that fignify ?Jfhere is* a broad piece ofgold that 1 was carrying to my mailer for atoken Cent him from the country, and I, likea fool, muft come through this unluckyplace to lofe it : 1 fhall be killed. Whatihall become ot me ?Swalpo'coming up, tells fome of the bye-ftanders, who were pitying «f the boy, thathe obferved that* country fellow there toftoop, and put fomething into his mouth*Whereupon they flew upon him, and one, of them wrefting open his moutlu^ madehim— *— 11( 4 )him fplt out the gold, and fomc blood alongwirh it. When the countryman endeavour¬ed to fpeak for hhnfelf, they kicked him,punched him, and tolled him about, andfome calling to the privy and pump, he wasglad to call for mercy, and thought himfelfricher than the Great Turk when he got outof their clutches. The boy, in the meantime, flips from the croud, and goes toSwalpo with the gold, where he ufed to fjndhim.CHAV. II.O WALPO and his boy changing clothes,kJ and going into the crowd, heard fome I ■talking of the country fellow, how he hadgot into a houfe, and had fcnt for mme re-fponfible people that knew him and his ma-Iter, a knight of vail eltate in the north, whowas come to town upon great bufmefs withfome Merchants. Swalpo knew the Gentle- :man and his eftate very well, and, byr whathe heard, expe&ing to fee him at the Ex¬change, went immediately thither, and phH\ed his pocket of a great many guineas, having ileft the Gentleman none but one to pay forhis dinner or other charges, until he ihouldreceive a recruit.The knight going to the tavern, laughedheartily, when his tenant came and told him1 how\( 5 )I how he had been ferved at the fair ; but^i calling for the reckoning, and telling the\ company that he was robbed too, it waft< comical to fee how the countryman laughed.! Zooks (fays he) let us make our eicape| from this roguifh place, for I am afraH tha^i they will ileal our fmall guts to make fiddle| firings.CHAP, hi,II qpiIE Gentleman lining his pockets a fe-con'I time with gold, v/ent next day to: the Exchange, and notwithstanding all the: care he took, he was robbed again. ButSwalpo being not an ordinary rogue, andhaving fomething of a generous principle int him, would not take all, but always left'I him rome Jittl.. money. The knight wonder¬ed how it was pofiible for the wit of man torob one that had been fo well forwarned as hewas. At lad, looking haftily about, he per¬ceived Swalpo ftanding befide him, and re-nVembering that he had feen him near himfeveral times before, he had a ftrong fufpicionhe was the man, v and coming to him, tookhold of his buttons, and told, him^that hehad good ground to, think that he was theS man that robbed him feveral times; but be¬ing a Gentleman cf a great efiate, his lofs did.not much ijoybie him; ancl if he would befo gefttrons as to tell him by wh?t menm behad lb ferved him. he would not ouly for-gi- him, but treat him well at a tavern, andhelp him to a better way of livincr, if hepleafed, and his^ fays he, 1 promife uponm> word of honour.Sir, fays Swalpo, your word of honour isfufficient ; I know the greatnefs of youreft ate, and where it lies: I am the man : I’llwait on your worlhip to the tavern, andthere (hew you feme of my art more freelythan I wpuld do to my fellow rogues. Asthey walked towards the tavern, the Gen¬tleman told hhi^he refolved to make a fro- .lie of it. and to that end he would fend iorfome Gentlemen of his acquaintance, andwould take care he fhould come to no harmby any difeovery he iliould make to them.I know that you are a Gentlemen, fays Swal¬po, and men of honour fcorn to keep bafecompany ; call as many as you pleafe, Til,take their words, and 1 know I am fafe.CHAP. IV.WHEN the gentry came* Swalpo tolathem a great many mings to their Iadmiration and fatisfa&ion ; and when hehad pulled cut the piece cf gold, and toklthem how he had ferved Roger, the Gentlc-Itnan's tenant, he was immediately fem forto make up the frolic. When hi came in,t was good fporl to fee how he foraped oni:he ground. His m,after, foiling, afkedhim of whom he learned to make fuch ahandfome leg. Ot J /wley my brown cow.Fir, fays Roger. What would you fay, faysche Gentleman, if you faw your gold again.Ah, fays Roger, I would I could fee it: butthen, if my mouth can’t keep it, wheredhould I put it ? Shud, I would rather feetthe rogue, I would then make a jelly of his|bones. There he is, fays the knight, andI there is your broad piece. As Roger beganto heave and jump, his mnfter commandedihim to take his goid and fit down by him.,S Roger feeing which way things went, drank.Ito Svvalpo.One of the Gentlemen pulling out a curiousmatch, another faid he wondered how itwas poflible tor them to pick a watch, whenit ftuck fo clofe in the fob, and that it wascertainly a man’s own careleflhels. No,fays Swalpo, if the Gentleman will take aturn or two in Moornelds, I’ll wager a guinea. I’ll have the watch before he return, let himtake what care he pleafes, and 1 lhall notj ftir out of the room. Done, fays the Gen¬tleman } done fays Roger •, Shud, he’ll (lealyour liver, if he fays he’ll do it. However,eVeryevery gentleman in the mam laying flown2a guinea, Rbger down with his broad piece |and bore hi half. The gentleman wentour ^with hi^ watch, and as he walked, wasjvery careful not to Itiffer man, woman, or|!chd.t to come within arms length ol him,!thinking tire devil was in it if any bodycould rob him at ’a di'iance. When it wasalmolt time he fhould return, a bov camefoitly behind him, yet not fo near as to give"the gentleman fufpicion, As he paft by, heLooked over his fhoulder, and tells the Gen¬tle man his back; was covered with huge lice,,which he perceiving, and wondering where'lie had bfeen that day. Good boy, fays thegentleman, take them off, and I’ll give youa Ihilling. The boy does fo, and pickingthe lice off his back, and the watch out of ;the fob, he received his reward and run oft.The gentleman returns to the tavern,,,wondering all the way how he came by iuch,which he perceiving, loathed the fight, fret- ;ting him all the way. When he returned,Swalpo enquired at him what o’clock it was !.by his watch, which thinking to pull opt,was amazed to find it gone. Swalpo>£ulls it out, afking if that was it ? The gen- jtleman Hood as dumb as a fifti, turning up jthe white of his eyes. Roger laughed fo ,©utragioufly, that after the gentleman hadendured( 9 )endured !ns noife a long time, the knightwas forced to command him to filence, forhe would have laughed all night. Thegentleman faid, certainly he mult have theadiftance of the devil; of a boy, fays Swal-po ; did not a boy pick you clean ? There’si the devil, fays the gentleman, and threw onthe vermin too I fuppofe. Ay, through ajquill, fayS Swalpo.  'CHAP. V.r | “’HE whole company was mightily pleaf-y .It ed with the ingenuity of the laft trick,i:cfpecial!y Reger, who could nit forget howi the gent! cman loolaed wtien he came to amiUnified his watch, and was now and thenjburltiRg out into a laughter. Svvalpo fays,a alas, gentlemen this trick is not worth talk-i ing ol j ’tis fuch a thing as we fend our boysabout; there’s a nobleman going now paftthe window, with a very rich coat on hisback. I’ll wager, as before, to fleal it fromoff his. back before all his followers, and.bring it hither on my back. The gentle-i men flaked each their guinea, and Swalpo> and Roger covered them as before. Now,fays Swalpo, I am to Ihew you a matter-piece of my art: I mutt not fend a boy aboutit, but crave leave to go myfelf ; neithercan I fet a time for my return, but I hopeto( 1° )tft do it fooner than you can cafily imagine.So out he runs, and dogging the noblemanfrom flreet to flreet, at lait followed him ,into a tavern. The nobleman was con-1du&ed up flairs ; Swalpo goes to the bar¬keeper, and defires he would lend him ansapron, lor, lays he, the nob eman, my ■mailer, wherever he comes, will be lerved Iwith none but myfclf; he is an extraordinary [good cuftomer, and < xpeds the bell of v. ine. |I muft go down to the cellar and taHe it for fhim. Whereupon they let him have theapron, and he went into the cellar, andfound out the bell of every fort. He ran fo jnimbly up and down flairs, and was fo,quick at his work, that none of the fervantsof the heufe could keep pace with him.The company looked upon him to be a fer-vant belonging to the houfe, and weremightily pleafed with his quicknefs anddiligence, and the gpodnefs of the wine,and every thing he brought them. Swalpopromifed him that he fhouid have attendedthe room for very large vails, and he wasvery well j^tisfied to receive money lordoing of nothing. Swalpo never came intothe room but he palled feme merry jdts,which pleafed them wonderfully ; and whenthey fpoke to him, his aniwers were fo ,fmart, and when he went for more wine,theyI ( l* )(they faid cne to another, this is a merry,jwitry, careful fellow, inch a one as he is fit:to make a houfe, he deferves double wages.When Swalpo had fufnciently amuled theicompany, and faw his project ripe for ex?-jCution, he was refolved to trifle no longer :wherefore when he returned into the roomwith forqe wine and as he palfed by my,|Lor he 'aid hold of the opportunity, andjiwtth his incihon-knife, which he ufed injpocket-picking, he nicely, and with admi¬n-able dexterity, made a flit in the back feamiof my Lord’s coat, and runs down (lairs forimore liquor. When he returned with aLottie in one hand, and the other full ofijglaiTcs, before he came near my Lord, Swal-"ipo darts, faying, what cohljng fellows areIthey that made this coat, could tliey notjfew a coat to hold but one day? This cab¬bage monger deferved the pil ory before forfilching *, but now grudging to allow a ditchor two more, lie has committed a fcandalummagnatum, and caufed my Lord to go in arent coat, the firf! day of wearing perhaps.Some of the company rifing, and feting the,i great flit, told my Lord the taylor hadaffronted him. ’Says my Lord, I gave the;fellows fuflicient vails, and both they and! their, mailer ihall hear on’r. My Lord, fays! Swalpo, Lis only the end of a thread flipped.Such( *2JSuch things will happen fometimeS ; the !coat may be faithfully Jewed in other places,'tis not a farthing the worfe : there is a curi¬ous drawer of my acquaintance lives in the jnext lane, be pleafed to let me carry it to !hkn, he will make it as good as at firft. 'FII carry it feeretly under my mafter’s cloak, *and return with it before you vrant morewine.The NTblemail borrows a great coat ofone of the company, and lets him have hiscoat. Swalpo coming-down to the landlord,told him what had happened to his Lord**coat, and to prevent its being feen in tiJeftreet, he requefted of iiim to let him have a |cloak, and he would return immediately.The Vintner fhewed him where the cloakwas, which Swalpo puts on, and claps theVintner’s beaver upon his head, which hungon the coat pin. Thus he troops olf with !them, and coming to the tavern where theGentlemen were, he went into a chamber,and having put on*; he Nobleman’s coat, thecloak ani beaver,, he came into the roomwhere they fat, faluting them very civilly.Says one of them, What! inftead of a coat •you are come with a cloak, and great needfor it, for there’s a dral of knavery under it.So opening the cloak, they were ail amanedto fee the rich embroidered coat, refutes thecloak/( *3 )cloak and beaver, which he told them heihad got ir/o the bargain. Roger laughed as! bud as a dozen of trumpets ; but when' : Swalpo told them how he had performed thej eiploit,' and related all the comical circum-1 Ibnces attending it with a great deal of air: and wit, there was as great a noife of laugh¬ter as ever was heard, and Roger, with ^isgreat bafe, mademp the concert.CHA?, Vld^ /jjf Y Lord and his company waited fo long4 JL v a time, that they were quite out of;j patience, the people of the houfe likewifeI wondering they fat fo long without calling,ordered the fellow that fhould have waitedd the room, to go up ftairs and force atrade. The fellow comes in and Yaid, Callhere, call here, Gentlemen. Yes, fays one/of them, where is your fellow fervant that’waited on us ? My "fellow fervant! fays theother, he told me he was my Lord’s fervant,and that my Lord would be attended bynone but himlelf, and I fhould have goodvails notwithkanding. But, fays my Lord,how can that be ? • have but one Gentle¬man here oi my own retinue : the refl arewith my lady; he that ferved us camein with an apron, and is a fervant ofi the houfe. Call up the ianctlerd. theVintner( 14 )Vintner coming up, a Gentleman of the com¬pany afked him if he kept (harpers in tnehoufe, to affront Gentlemen and rob them rNay, fays the Vintner, (who was a ver/paflionate man) do you bring (harpers alongwith you, to affront tne and rob my houfe ?I’m fure I have loll a fine new cloak and bea¬ver and, for ought I know though you looklike Gentlemen, you may be (harpers ycur-felves, and o! you I expect to be paid for myloflfes and your reckoning alfo.Immediately one of the company drewupon him, but the Vintner ran down (lairs,and called all the houfe together, biddingthem get what they could, and not fuff'erone to come down (lairs ; and fnatching hisfword in a fury, ran up (lairs rgain. Thefervants arming themfeives with (pits andfire-forks, and fuch weapons as they couldfind, followed him. The uproar was verygreat, and my Lord coming out firft to forcenis way down, made a pufft at the landlord,but was put by with a fire-(hovel, which•was in one of the drawers hands, narrowlyefcaping being thrufi: into the guts with along fpit, which Margery, the cook wench,carried ; fo that my Lord, feeing the door fowell guarded with (lout fellows and (lurdywenches, retired into the room, and toldthe company he had almoff died by the handsof £ wench, with a fpit in her hand. Theyfeeing it neither fafe nor honourable to fallyout, ihut the door and {landing upon thed efenfive part, began to confuk what to do.CHAP. Vil.r | 'TIE Gentlemen forfeiting a quarrel be--*• twixf my Lord and the Vintner, imme-idiately difpatched their o .vn landlord to tellthem both, that they had caught the roguethat had abufed them, and that they hadhim in fafe cuRody, praying my Lord toknow if they Ihould wait upon him. TheLandlord runs in all hade, and coming tothe houie, and found it all in a horrid up-roar ; the fervant knowing him, allowedhim to go up flairs, where he no foonercame, but he told his brother vintner that theywere all in a miflake, that the rogue wascatched, and in his houfe $ whereuponcalling aloud to my Lord, informed him ofthe whole bufinefs. Immediately a ceffationof arms was proclaimed, the fwords flieath-ed, the Spits, Fire-forks and Fire-fhovelsdifbanded, and an end happily made of aterrible war. The nobleman and his com¬pany drinking iriends with the vintner, pro-miied to be a friend to his houfe lor the timeto come, but refolved to go along with theirpeace-maker to the Tavern where Swalpo( >6 )was, to mend the frolic. The vintnef beingas well pleai'ed with the conceit as any of themfilled his pock- s and went along with themvWhen they were come to the place, afterpalling feme compliments, they fat down,and bwalpo delivering the coat, cloak, andbeaver, they deiired him to give them anaccount of all the rogueries that he and hiscomrades had committed, which he didfreely \ and as for what he told them, andthe other tricks he fhewed them at thattime, not having room here to relate them,we muft refer them to a fecond part, if thismeets with encouragement. But tne noble-^ man and gentry confidering, that when allwas done, honefty is the bell policy, toldSwalpo, that it was a great pity that fo muchwit and courage Ihould be lo ill employed,and that if he would alter his courfe of lite,he had now an opportunity to do it. He an-fwered them, he was very fenfiblc of whafej*they raid, and gave them hearty thanks.Well, fays the nobleman, I have a placeof a hundred a year, if that will iatisfy you,you lhali have it. Swalpo thanked him withgreat reverance, and when tne frolic was oyer,went along with the nobleman, and provinga very honed map, married to great advan¬tage, and lived happily and in great elteemwith the gentry of the country.Cfi&P»( *7 )CHAP. VIII.THE Nobleman hearing him talk ofpicking of watches, defired him to doit in his fight, Swalpo bid the NoblemanHand on his guard, and keep his watch withall the care he could, he would have it fromhim.The Nobleman was then walking up andll down the room for his eafe ; Swalpo was on{ his feet too. but it was good fport to fee myI Lord give him the way every time they 'met.S Swalpo defired fome bf the gentry to' enteri into a hot difpute with my Lord, which theyj doing, my Lord began to be very earned:,I but (till kept his hand upon his watch. Swal-j po laying hold on the firft opportunity,ij gently tickles my lord with a den’s featherj under the right ear, which made Him on afudden quit the watch to fcratch hi add If,and, upon clapping his hand on hLs fob again,and perceiving it was gone, he immediatelylooks behind him, and fees .Swalpo bowing;to him with the watch in his hand, andRoger laughing fo loud, that for a quarterof an hour, it was in vain to fpeak a word,he making fo much a noife, one would havethought, as if it had been a man of warfiling a broadfidq. infommeh that the com-pany( 18 )patif were forced ro do as he did, until Rogerwas fufficiently tired.CHAP. IX.^\NE of the company looking out at thewindow, fiw in another window overthe way, a large tankard, hut very oldfa/hioned. Swalpo being called, was afkedif he could deal that tankard ? he told themthat he would go over the way and fetch it,but he muff not be confined to time, andRoger mufi; go along with him. Rogerhearing thus, was overjoyed, fancying thathe fliould gain the reputation of a lecondSwalpo.\W;n fVrv went out, Swalpo defined himto go to fuch a Poulterer’s, and buy a couplecf phcafants the befit he could find, andreturn to him to fiuch a tavern. When Ro¬ger returned, he found Swalpo with an apronabout him, like a drawer. Swalpo takesthe pheafants, and goes to the merchant’shoufe where the tankard was : he was cer¬tain the merchant was not within, becaufeSwalpo’s boy had followed him to the Ex-change. lie defires to ipeak with the ’merchant’s lady, and tells her, that the .gentlema:i hnammg her hufband) was in atavern near uV. Exchange, engaged in fopie !important bufineis • and a Goldfmith hap¬pening( *9 )sjening to be in the company, had perfuadediiim to fend for the old-faihioncd ta kard,to be changed For a fafhionabie one ; andoecaufe there was a couple of gentlemen inthe company he had invited to dine with him,Ce defired the dinner Ihould be carefullyirefled, and the pheafants roafted, and thenew tankard (hould be fent home by thattime.1 Pray heavens blefs my hufband, fays theilady, and continue the good temper he is in.I have talked to him thefe feven years pallllabout this lumbering cup, and he did nothingput banter me about it : heavens prefervehim from hidden mifchief! I’ll either havelit as good as my lady fuch a one’s, in St.James’.’,'-cr I’ll fend it back again. Fv l of"f ft *. X v. .Xijoy file received the pheafants, and dclivthe tankard to Swalpo. When the mer¬chant came home, his lady met him full aswell drefled, and as well pleaded as a youngbride. She flew about his neck, biffed himtwenty >imes, end gave him a hundredthouiands than’s icr the tankard and phea-faiits and pray honey, fays fhe, where arethe gentlemen ? and, pray honey, fays he,where are your wits ? Hey day, my wife’srun diflrafted.It was a prettv while before they could un-dt rfhnd one another, and, iidiead of dining,fhe( 20 )flie went into her chamber to cry, and hewent to Lombard ftreet, to caufe the tankard!t® be feized if offered to fale.chap. x.OGER feeing fo much ingenuity, wasV inflamed v. irh a defire of fhewing hissparts too. What, fays he, fliall I come to-London, and be in fu-ch good company*and lee and hear of fo much wit, and havenothing to fay of my own exploits when Iget home ? how wiil Joan and the wholeparilh dare at me h I can do fuch things asthei'c ? Away he goes, and dr dies himfelflike a porter, and coming in hade to themerchant’s lady, told her that her hufbandwas at the Swan, in Cornhill, with a. gold-ftrytli who had flopped a tankard of his*and had patched the rogue, ami prayed her’to come immediately to the Swan, and feethe rogue before he fhouid be lent to New-.gaJxu Dear heart, lays fne, what a happywoman,am I ! See him ! I’ll go fee him there,I’ll lee him m Newgate, I’ll fee him at Ty¬burn, with a vengeance to him. But, faysRoger, my mafltr is very hungry, andwould have you fend him the couple ofpheafants, that the thief may fee you and mymailer eat them before his eyes, and comealoF.'/j-wxriidfte. Roger receiving them, andthe lady having her head to <s!refs a little,told him; Ihe knew the place welj enough,and would be there inftantly.Roger bring? the pheafants to my lordand his company, which aftion caufed asmuch mirth as any thing that had beenbefore, efpecially conddering hour'clowniih-ly he looked and fpoke ; but they had beenrniftaken as to.him, for he was more knavethan fool ; a fly dog as you ihaii know inthe following chapter.The lady coming to the Swan, enquiredTor her hufoand, they told her he had notjbeen there that day. This anlwer ftruckI her dumb for a fhort fpace, and they feeingher in great confufion, thought flie was fomewhore that had milled her ip ark, and beganto banter her ; then (he telling a lame (lory| of her being robbed, and a iking them fomeimpertinent queilions, as they fancied,about a tankard arid pheafants, they fell alaughing at her. Being of a high fpirit,ihe raged extremely at them but could not. help herfelf, and rearing ro be mobbed fora whore, ihe ported home to vent her griefthere, and finding her huiband juit come in,ihe told him how ihe had been ferved.While they were fretting and talkingthus, and the lady ^roaring as loud at ihecould, the mailer of the tavern where mylordlord was, comes in and tdls them, that thtwo rogues who had cheated them were iifafe cuftody in his houfe. and if they pJeafeito walk over, they fhould fee them, amdrink out of their own tankard, and eatheir {hare of the pheafants- Fearing ncmore danger, they joyfully went over thtway to their neighbour’s houfe, where thtgentlemen were juft going to dine, but tbeiwondered what was the meaning of th]rogues fitting at table with them, and efpdciallv clownifli Roger, whom they had fojefs ’aKe, let at the head of the table, witShis ' at on. whereas all the reft were uncovered The lady not enquiring into thmeaning of all this, was a little unea!y athe ftght of them that put fo great an a fro itand ahufe upon her ; but {he was wonde:fully fatisfied when one of the com: any torher all from the beginning to the endNever was a dinner more merrily eaten thatthat wTas.' CHAP. XI.THE dinner was exceeding rich, attenced with the choiceit wines of Franc#Germany, Italv, and Portugal. Rogeud ally put in with a comical proverb or ilblunder. One of the company telling hinhV Jhe had improved mightily fmce he wasat Bar no!anew Fair. Ay, hsyg Roty r,Swalpo couid not ch'&at me now or my broadpic.rek now! fays Swalpo, do you chal- %If; .;c aoui nvafier ? obferve what a fancyfcholer I have got. V, ell, Roger, to (hewthe lady you afforded for e fport let us er r,.elude with a droll. Your piqce is mine in aquarter of an hour, keep it as well as youcan. All the craft lies in the catching of it,fays Roger, threatned folks live long, do yourword, devil. With that he jumps from thetable, and runs into the next room. Kefoon comes in again without his breeches,for he carried them at the top of his longoaken plant, fo that Sw .ipb could not reachthem. The gentry laughed at the fight, butn hen he turned his back, they faw his fhirtwas painted behind with a deal of yellow,brown and black, the black was by drink¬ing over night; then they redoubled theirlaughter.In the mean time Swalpo caufes his boy tobring him feme cow itch, mixed with alittle horfe-hair. After they had both fhow¬ed many antic poftures, Swalpo pretendedto make for the bveechesj' and Roger avoid¬ing him, Swalpo, by a fign, caufed his boyto lift up the tail of Roger’s fhirt, andanoint him well with the cow-itch ; thenpretending4 ■ ■( 24 )pretending to be venquifhed he fat downRoger (till keeping the held of honour, goingup and down, flrutting as a new enfign, 01a crow in a gutter, and waving his breechesabout his head, he proclaimed the vidory.The ointment then began to work a littleupon his buttocks, which fet him a rubbingand icratching—and as fcratching, eating,and fighting, wants nothing but a beginning,the more he clawed, the more he might.Roger made feveral wry faces, and runsto the nex! room, where he cut away theflap of his Ihirt and put on his breeches; hereturned again to the company, and continu¬ing to fcratch a good while alter, he toldthem he deferved what he had got, and forthe time to come would remember thefe pro¬verbs, viz.He that looks too "high,Gets a chip in his rye.Let not a Slioe-jnaker go beyond his laft.The reckaniag being paid, the Gcntlcme*.departed, and Roger went down into thecp«ntry to his wile Joan.FINIS.. *T- '* _ lM ' ' .-d