CHEAP TRACTS, No. 3.A PICTURE OF WAR;BEING AN ACCOUNT OPTHEStorming of lladajozAND THERussian Campaign.Birr WJSE MEN say, and sure ’tis true,THAT WAE IS THEFT, AND MURDER TOO.DUNFERMLINE :PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER,1826.' OF SCOTLA^r 'OF s\/A PICTURE OF WAR.“ fFai's k game, ■which, were their Subjects teisc,King's ■would not play at     ’’There is no subject on which the common sense ofmankind has gone farer wrong than that of WAR :This demon of discord, while it bewilders with itsglare, subjects to the greatest privations, not onlythose engaged in it, but all who are not far removedfrom its influence. While mankind are by naturebrethren, mutually dependant on one another (inwhatever quarter of the world they may reside), forthe supply of the necessaries and comforts of life.War destroys the connection—makes those enemieswho should be friends, and entails misery and wantwhere comfort and plenty would otherwise be found.Neither is there any thing in which principle is moref3grossly perverted. The nations of Europe are pro¬fessedly Christian ; but in Europe war has raged un¬til it has lost its energies, and it is still cultivated asa science, and followed as a profession, although itsprinciples and its practices are as much opposed toChristianity as light is to darkness; and there ismuch truth in the assertion, that, mere Christiannations, nations of Christians, all war would be im~jKjssible, and unknown among them. Let those whomay doubt this assertion, read attentively the Sermonof Jesus Christ upon the Mount, Matthew v. vi. andvii. and let them sayr if War is in any way coun¬tenanced there.To correct, however, the ideas of those into whosehands this may fall, who think otherwise, a fewmournful pictures are subjoined, which have beenexhibited to the world during some of the recent' campaigns; and that they may not be objected to osthe ideal representations of an over-sanguine philan¬thropy, are delineated in the words of the writers,who were themselves eye-witnesses of, or actors in,the scenes they so aflectingly describe; and these weshall introduce with the following Picture of Warand its effects, drawn by a modem divine.At the final issue of an obstinate contest, there mustnecessarily be many lives lost on both sides; de¬struction has then done her worst* and selected theobjects of her fury; the grave that tells no talessilently receives her myriads of murdered souls •and ungrateful Ambition, forgetting the blood bywhich victory was purchased, dwells only with rap¬ture on the glory of her conquests ! Oh ! that thegreat ones of the earth were but a little more inclinedto the reflection ! what conquest was ever worth theuseful lives lost to accomplish it ? what battle wasever fought that did not hurry thousands of tremb¬ling and unprepared souls into the presence of theiroffended Redeemer ?40 God ! vben thou makest inquisition for blood, ,upon whom- wilt thou lay the guilt of those torrents *of blood, that have been shed for no earthly purposewhatever, but to gratify the detestable and insolent :lambition oi a few poor puny creatures like ourselves.At the conclusion of a spirited and long contestedwar, there is scarcely a cottage to be mdt with thatdoes not bear visible marks of its fruits. In onemiserable hut you may behold, stated at their scanty |imeal, a mother and her tribe of half-starved children; !but father you will find none; death met him in thefield of battle, and in a moment, made /tis children ifatherless, and his wife a widow.Here you view’ an aged couple, bent double with jinfirmities and years, and God knows! but little |icapable to sustain a protracted journey through the j:w inter of life, yet hoping still to see better days, when j ithe war is ended, and their children returned. Time, Lthat at length brings all things to bear, finishes the 1w ar; but time does not bring back their children.To the artifical advantages of war, I oppose w ith Jconfidence, the real losses of mankind : To the pomp nand splendour of martial heroism, I oppose the •!orphan’s tears, and the widow’s cry : And to the ivain and idle boast of the victor, the sad and untime- |ly fate of the vanquished. When the glories of a fbattle are the theme of conversation, how seldom are !those remembered w ho fought and fell in it! Twenty 1ithousand of what are called common soldiers, might }perish, and no one concern himself to enquire how |they died, or where they were buried; but let inhu-man and insolent pride be told, that every one of jthose poor men, who thus fell neglected and forgotten, jwere as true to their king as faithful to their country,had dispositions as good, and hearts as brave andhonest, and souls as dear, as'the greatest and noblestwarrior among them. How often are the commonsoldiers dooroe * to Beg bitter [bread,’’ while toemany who ate conversant only in the knaveries ofwar, and who without virtue, labour, or hazard,: arcgrowing rich, as their country is impoverishing, findtheir infamies at length rewarded, by equipages tkc.txhlrtc UJcc meteors, and palaces that rise like exhalations.In short, war is altogether a system of folly anddevastation, of knavery and ingratitude, where thechief actors are the greatest Jossers, the most inoffensivc the greatest sufferers.—Where the least entitledgrow rich upon the spoil of those who serve them,iind where the most deserving are »epaid withpoverty and disgrace.Nay more, where men at the instigation of thosewho glory in their destruction, act a part contraryTO HUMAN NA TURE, THH DIP TATES OF SOUND REA¬SON, AND to THZ VERY SPIRIT of CHRISTIANITY.THE STORMING OF BJDAJOZ.Camp before Budajoz* 5th April, JfclihMV DEAR FRIEND,“ We expect to storm Badajoz to-nightin three separate places, so I shall soon s^ereal service ; and it is expected to be verysharp work unless they surrender, which isnot likely, as General Philippon is a verydetermined fellow. The French seem,however, to be short of powder and shot;6or perhaps they are reserving it for us to¬night. They fire a shell or bomb aboutevery two minutes, while we keep up aconstant fire upon the breaches and upon ;the town.Alvaon, 15111 April.“ I now proceed to give you an accountof the storming of Badajoz.“ At eight o’clock at night, on Mondaythe 5th of April, we M ere formed without iknapsacks, and in half an hour marched in 'an indirect line towards the town,, under !strick orders, “ that not a whisper should he \ sheard /” Part of the 5th division w'ere to iattack the toMTn on the south side, while !the third division, to which I was attached, !,Avith their ladders were to scale the citadel,and the rest were to assault the grand breach. I“ I procured a soldier's jacket, a firelock, ,sixty round of ball-cartridges, and was on ithe right of my company.. “ But, before 1 proceed, I M ill give you jsome information which I have since ob- *tained, to shew you where, and to what,we were going! The governor is allowed 'to be one of the best engineers in the 1French Service, and he has so proved him- !self; though our fire was continued at thebreach, he had pieces of Avood fastened in¬to the ground, the saa ord blades and bayo¬nets fixed to them, slanting outAvards;7behind this a cher-uux tie frieze was chainedat both ends across the breach; the beamof it about a foot square, with points on allsides projecting about a yard from thecentre, and behind that was a trench fourfeet wide and four deep. Covering allthese, soldiers were planted eight deep, thetwo first ranks to fire as fast as they could,and those behind to load for them. Thusprepared, he told the men, “ if they stuckto their posts, all the troops in the worldcould not enter.” Trenches were also dugabout fifty yards round the breach in casewe did get in ! In short the oldest officerssay that no place has been defended with somuch science and resolution in our times.“ On the march all \yas silent, except thatour cannon kept up their,fire at the breaches,till we got within a quarter of a mile of thetown, when there were two or three fire¬balls thrown from it in different directions,one of them falling close to us, we silentlywhispered to each other, “ Now it willbegin /” As the first division of our troopsapproached the place, the whole town ap¬peared as if it were one mine, every yardthrowing out bombs, cannon-balls, &c. &c.grape-shot and musket balls flying also inevery direction. On the fire-balls strikinghear us, we moved out of the road to thegreensward, but cannon-balls hissed by usalong the grass* and the musquet-balls flewlike hail aooutour heads ; we immediatelybegan, therefore, to run forward, till wewere within about a hundred yards of thebridge across the first ditch, and then theballs came so thick that, as near as I canjudge, twenty must have passed in thespace of a minute, within a yard of my head.“ While we w'ere running on the grass,one or two men dropped every minute, andwere left behind ; but now they fell faster.When we carae to the bridge w hich w asabout two yards wide, and twelve yardslong, the balls came so thick that 1 had noexpectation of getting across alive. Wethen began to ascend the hill, and were ascrowded as people in, a fair. We had tocreep upon our hands and knees, the ascentbeing so steep and rocky; and whilecreeping my brother-officer received a ballin the brain, and fell dead! Having gotup this rock, we came to some palisadoes,within about twrenty yards of a wall; thesewe broke down, but behind them was aditch three feet deep, and just behind thata flat space about six yards broad, andthen a hill thrown up eight feet high.These passed, w’e approached a second ditch,and then the wall, wrhich w’as tw’enty-sixfeet high, against wdiieh we planted six orseven ladders,9“The hill is much like that at Greenwich,about as steep and as high. Just as Xpassed the palisadoed ditch, there came adischarge of grape-shot from a twenty-fourpounder, directly into that flat space, andabout twelve fine fellows sunk upon theground, uttering a groan that shook theoldest soldier to the soul. Ten of themnever rose again, and the nearest of themwas within a foot of me, and the farthestnot four yards distant. It swept away allwithin its range. The next three or foursteps I took, was upon this heap of dead !You read of the horrors of war, yet littleunderstand what they mean !“ When J got over this hill into theditch, under the wall, the dead and wound¬ed lay so thick that I was continuallytreading upon them. A momentary pausetook place about the time we reached theladders, occasioned 1 apprehend by thegrape-shot, and by the numbers killed fromoff the ladders;—but all were soon up, andformed again in the road just over the walkWe now cheered four or five times! Whenwe had entered the citadel, which wasdirectly after we had scaled the wall, noshot came amongst us ; the batteries therehad been silenced before we were over, andwe formed opposite the two gateways,with orders to let no force break throughns." I was in the front rank!10“ As soon as Philippon heard that wewere in the citadel, he ordered two thou¬sand men ‘ to retake it at all eventsbut,when he was told that the w hole of the Ithird division had got in, * Then,’ said he, |give up the towrn.’“ One battery f red about two hours af¬ter we were in, but those near the breachwere quite in half an hour, part of the fifth idivision which got in on the south havingsilenced them. The attack on the breach Ifailed; it was renewed a second time ; and ll:again a third time, with equal bad fortune, i|which made Lord Wellington say, ‘ the |ithird division has saved my honour and l)gained the.town.“ We continued under arms all night, jAbout fifty prisoners wrere made in the ticitadel. Philippon withdrew into FortSt. Christoval, and most of the cavalry es¬caped by the Sally Port. By the laws ofwar we were allowed to kill all we found,and our soldiers declared they w ould do so; ,but an Englishman cannot kill in coldblood!“ Our regiment did not fire a gun the 1whole time. I saw one instance of bravery |on the part of the French, just before the »grape shot came; eight or ten Frenchmen iwere standing on the battery. No. 32, one iof our regiment fired and killed one or two »■411of them, but the rest stood like statues;they kept on firing till there was but twoleft, when, one of them being shot, theother jumped down.“The town is about the size of Northamp¬ton ; all the houses near the breach werecompletely battered down, and most of theothers damaged.“ In the morning I ' turned to the camp,and by day light retraced my steps of thenight before. In every place 1 passed agreat many wounded; I saw eight or tenshot through the face, and their heads amass of clotted blood, many with limbsshattered, many shot through the body,and groaning most piteously ! I found thebody of my brother officer on the hill, hispantaloons, sword, epaulet, and hat, taken a-l| way ; the dead lay stretched out in everyform, some had been dashed to pieces bybombs, many had been stripped naked,and others had Ibeen rolled in the dust,with blood and dirt sticking all over them!“ When I came to the spot where thegrape-shot first struck us, the bodies layvery thick! but even there they bore nocomparison to the heaps in the breach, wherethey lay one upon another two or three-tj deep, and many in the ditch ivere half outand half in the water.12*• I shall now give you my feelingsthrough the whole affair, and I have nodoubt when you read this you will feel simi¬larly. I marched towards the town ingood spirits ; and, when the balls began to^ome thick about me, I expected every one•would strike me r as they increased, I re-?arded them less; at the bottom of the hillwas quite inured to danger, and couldhave marched to the cannon’s mouth. When |the grape-shot came, 1 suffered more forthose who fell than for myself; and, whenI first trode upon the dead heaps, it washorrible1 In the next twenty or thirtysteps I trode upon many more dead, buteach impression became less terrible!“ You see that I have literally beenwithin a few inches, of death,—upon thevery verge of eternity •' With you, whentwo or three of your acquaintance die, yousay,. ‘These are awful times* death hasrbeen very busy !’ Here he was busy in¬deed ! ! Of three othcers with whom Idined that day, one was killed and anotherseverely wounded, yet not a hair of my .head has been hurt! I am indeed in betterhealth than ever I was in my life.isTHE RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN.A few extracts from a Circumstantial narrative ofthe Campaign in Russia, by Eugene Labaumk,captain of the Royal Geographical Engineers, andattached to the fouith corps, of the French army,commanded by Eugene Beauharnois, in that ill*fated and destructive enterprise.A Picture of Smolensko after being Stormedm“ In every direction we marched overscattered ruins and dead bodies. Palaces,still burning, offered to our sight only wallshalf destroyed by the flames, and, thickamong the fragments, were the blackenedcarcases of the wretched inhabitants whomthe fire had consumed. The few housesthat remained were completely filled .bythe soldiery, while at the door stood themiseraole proprietor without an asylum,deploring the death of his children, and theloss of his fortune. The churches aloneafforded some consolation to the unhappyvictims who had no other shelter. Thecathedral, celebrated through Europe, andheld in great veneration by the Russians,became the refuge of the unfortunate beingswho had escaped the flames. In thischurch, and round its altar, were seen wholefamilies extended on the ground. On oneside .was an old man just expiring, andcasting a last look on the image of the14saint whom he had all his life invoked ; onthe other was an infant, whose feebles criesthe mother, worn down with grief, was en¬deavouring to hush, and while she present¬ed it with the breast, her tears droppedfast upon it.“ In the midst of this desolation, thepassage of the army into the interior of thetown, formed a striking contrast. On oneside was seen the abject submission of theconquered—on the other the pride atten¬dant upon victory: the former had losttheir all—the latter, rich with spoil, andignorant of defeat, marched proudly on tothe sound of warlike music, inspiring the iunhappy remains of a vanquished popula¬tion with mingled fear and admiration.The Night before the Battle.“ Although, worn out with fatigue, wefelt not the want of sleep, there were manyamong us, so enamoured of glory, and soflushed with the hope of the morrow’s suc¬cess, that they were absolutely incapable ofrepose. As they passed the wakeful hours,and the silence and darkness of midnightstole *upon them, while the fires of the isleeping soldiers, now almost extinct, threw'their last frays of light over the heaps ofarms piled around, theyi gave themselves, up to profound meditation. They reflected13on the wonderful events of our strangeexpedition : they mused on the result of abattle which w as to decide the fate of tw opowerful empires: they compared thesilence of the night wdth the tumult of themorrow': they fancied that Death wssnowhovering over their crowded ranks, but thedarkness of the night prevented them fromdistinguishing who would be the unhappyvictims: They then thought of theirparents—their country—and the uncertain¬ty w'hether they should evei see these be¬loved objects again, plunged them into thedeepest melancholy. But suddenly, beforedaybreak, the beat of the drum Was heard,the officers cried to arms, the men eagerlyrushed to their different stations, and all,in order for battle, awaited the signal foraction The colonels placing themselves inthe centre of their regiments, ordered thetrumpet to sound, and every captain, sur¬rounded by his company, read aloud thefollowing proclamation:—“ Soldi krs—This is the battle so muchdesired by you ! The victory depends onyourselves. It is now necessary to us. Itwill give us abundance, good w inter quar¬ters, and a prompt return to our coun¬try ! Behave as as Austerlitz, at Fried-land, at Witespsk, at Smolensko, — andlet the latest posterity recount withpride, your conduct on this day ; let themsay of you—‘ He was at the great battleunder the walls of Moscow !’ fThe Taking of a Redoubt.‘ The Viceroy and his Staff, in spite ofthe enemy’s tremendous fire remained atthe head of Broussier’s division, followedby the J 3th and 30th regiments. Theyadvanced on the redoubt, and, entering it Jby the breast-work, massacred on their?ieces, the cannoneers that served them,Vince Kutusofk, who had witnessed thisattack, immediately ordered the cuirassiers jof the gvn’.rd to advance and endeavour to |retake position. These were the best oftheir cavalry The shock between theircuirassiers and ours was therefore terrible;and one may judge of the fury with whichboth parties fought, when the enemy, inquitting the field, left it completely coveredwith dead.“ The interior of the redoubt pre¬sented a horrid picture. The dead wereheaped on one another. The feeble criesof the wounded were scarcely heard amidthe surrounding tumult. Arms of everydescription were scattered over thefield of battle. The parapets, half de¬molished, had their embrasures entirely de¬stroyed. Their places were distinguished417only by the cannon, the greatest part ofwhich were dismounted and separated fromthe broken carriages. In the midst of thisscene of carnage, I discovered the body ofa Russian cannoneer, decorated with threecrosses. In the one hand he held a brokensword, and with the other firmly graspedthe earriao-e of the gun at which he had so“The most horrid spectacle (continues ourauthor) was, the interior of the ravines,where almost all the wounded, who wereable to drag themselves along, had takenrefuge to avoid further injury. Thesemiserable creatures, heaped one uponanother, and swimming in their blood, ut¬tered the most heart-rending groans. T heyfrequently invoked death with piercingcries, and eagerly besought us to put anend to their agonies.“ While the fourth corps was construc¬ting a bridge across the Moskwa, the staff,about two o’clock, established itself on alofty hill, whence we perceived a thousandelegant and gildedsteeples,which, glitteringin the rays of the sun, appeared at the dis¬tance like so many flaming globes. One ofvRetreat of the Wounded.Moscow at a distance.18these globes, placed on the summit of apillar, or an obelisk, had the exact ap¬pearance of a balloon, suspended in the air.Transported with delight at this beautifulspectacle, which was the more gratifying,from the remembrance of the melancholyobjects which we had hitherto seen, wecould not suppress our joy ; but, with onespontaneous movement, we all exclaimed,Moscow! Moscow! At the sound of thiswished-for name, the soldiers ran up the }hill in crowds, and each discovered new 3wonders every instant. One admired anoble chateau on our left, the elegant archi¬tecture of which displayed more thaneastern magnificence ; another directed hisattention towards a palace or a temple; butall were struck with the superb picturewhich this immense town afforded. Thewalls, variously painted, the domes coveredwith lead or slates, or glittering with gold,offered the most pleasing variety ; whilstthe terraces before the palaces, the obelisksover the gates, and, above all the steeples—really presented to our eyes one of thosecelebrated cities of Asia, which we hadthought had only existed in the creativeimagination of the Arabian poets.The Conflagration of Moscow.“ No cry, no tumlut was heard in thisscene of horror. Every one found a-19bundantly sufficient to satisfy his thirst forplunder. Nothing- was heard but the crack¬ling of flames, and the noise of the doorsthat were broken open—and occasionally adreadful crash caused by the falling in ofsome vault. Cottons, muslins, and in shortall the most costly productions of Europeand of Asia were a prey to the flames. Thecellars were filled with sugar, oil, and vitriol:these burning all at once in the subterra¬neous warehouses, sent forth torrents offlames through thick iron grates, and pre¬sented a striking image of the mouth ofhell. It was a spectacle both terribleand affecting. Even the .most hardenedminds were struck with a conviction that sogreat a calamity would on some future day,call forth the vengeance of the Almightyupon the authors of such crimes.“The hospitals too, which contained20,000 wounded Russians, now began toburn. This offered a harrowing and dread¬ful spectacle. Almost all these miserablecreatures perished. A few who still lin¬gered, were seen crawling, half burnt, a-mong the smoking ruins; and others,groaning under heaps of dead bodies, en¬deavoured in vain to extricate themselvesfrom the horrible destruction which sur¬rounded them.20"In the morning, about the dawn of day, Iwitnessed the most dreadf ul and, the mostaffecting scenes which it is possible to con¬ceive ; namely, the unhappy inhabitantsdrawing ujwn some vehicles all that they hadbeen able to save from the conflagration. Thesoldiers, having robbed them of' their horses,the men and women were slowly and pain¬fully dragging along these little carts, someof them contained an infirm mother, others aparalytic old man, and others the miser aideroreclu of half-consumed furniture; children,half naked, followed these interesting groups.Affliction, to which their age is commonly astranger, was impressed even on their features;and when the soldiers approached them, theyran crying into the arms cf their mothers!'THE RETREAT.“ The soldiers, vainly struggling withthe snow and the wind which rushed uponthem with the violence of a whirlwind,could no longer distinguish the road, and,failing into the ditches which bordered it,there found a grave. Others pressed ontowards the end of their journey, scarcelyable to drag themselves along, badly moun¬ted, badly clothed, wdth nothing to eat,nothing to drink, shivering with cold,and groaning Avith pain. Becomingselfish through despair, they affor-ssded neither succour, nor even one glance ofpity to those who, exhausted by fatigueand disease, expired around them. Howmany unfortunate beings, on that dreadfulday, dying of cold and famine, struggledhard with the agonies of death ! We heardsome of them faintly bidding their lastadieu to their friends and comrades. Others,as they drewr their last breath, pronouncedthe name of their mother, their wives,their native country, which they wrere nevermore to see. The rigour of the frost soonseized on their benumbed limbs, and pene¬trated through the whole frame. Stretchedon the road, we could distinguish only theheaps of snow which covered them, andwhich, at almost every step, formed littleindulations like so many graves. At thesame time, vast flights of ravens,abandoningthe plain to take refuge in the neighbouringforests, croaked mournfully as they passedover our heads; and troops of dogs, whichhad followed us from Moscow, and livedsolely on our mangled remains, howled a-round us, as if they would hasten the periodwhen we were to become their prey.“ From that day the army lost its courage'1'J “itude. The soldier noseparated himself from his general. Theregiments, disbanded, marched in dis-officer. The officerorder. Searching for food, they spreadthemselves over the plain, burning andpillaging whatever fell in their way. Thehorses fell by thousands. The cannonand the waggons which had been aban¬doned served only to obstruct the way.No sooner had the soldiers separated fromthe ranks, than they were assailed by a jpopulation eager to avenge the horrors ofwhich it had been the victim. The Cossackscame to the succour of the peasants, anddrove back to the great road, already filled 1with the dying and the dead, those of the |followers who escaped from the carnage :made among them.The Retreat continued." Marching from Smolensko, a spectacle the most uhorrible was presented to our view. From that point 8till we arrived at a wretched ruined hamlet, at the t|distance of about three leagues, the road was entirely ,|covered with cannon and ammunition-waggons, J•which they had scarce time to spike or to blow up. iHorses in the agonies of death were seen at every tstep ; and sometimes whole teams, sinking under |the'.- labours, fell together. All the defiles whiah the >carriages could not pass, were filled with muskets, u-helmets, and breast-plates. Trunks broken open, Jj1portmanteaus torn to pieces, and garments of everykind were scattered over the valley. At every little udistance, we met with trees, at the foot of which thensoldiers had attempted to light a fire, but the poornwretches had perished ere they could accomplish flitheir object. We saw them stretched by dozens d23around the green branches which they had vainlyendeavoured to kin dip ; and so numerous were thebodies, that they -would have obstructed the road,hatl not the soldiers been often employed in throw¬ing them into the ditches and the ruts.“ We can scarcely imagine a picture more deplora¬ble than the bivouac of the staff. Twenty-one officers,confounded with as many servants, had crept togetherround a little fire, underan execrable cart-house scarce¬ly covered. Behind them were the horses ranged ina circle, that they might be some defence against theviolence of the wind, which blew with fury. Thesmoke was so thick that we could scarcely see thefigures of those who were close to the fire, and whowere employed in blowing the coals on which theycooked their food. The rest, wrapped in theirpelisses or their cloaks, lay one upon another, assome protection from the cold : nor did they stir,except to abuse those who trode upon them as theypassed, or to rail at the horses, which kicked when¬ever a spark fell on their coats.”THE RESULT OF THE CAMPAIGN.f\eThese may be considered as imperfect sketches,many of ihem hastily drawn, of horrific scenes, whichdistinguished a campaign, that ended in the re¬turn of a few miserable stragglers out of 400,0Offwarriors, who, we are told, had crossed the Niemenbut a few' months before; elated, it is probable, withthe hopes of success, and buoyed up in the delusiveexpectation of soon returning, crowned with thespoils of the vanquished; for, we are informed thatit was by the light of the flames of Moscow tiiat theauthor penned the account of its conflagration;—and it appears, that he had to pursue his melancholytask of recording passing events, generally at night,beside a wretched fire, almost benumbed with cold,and surrounded with his dead and dying companions!nAnd can such scenes, to arepetition of which, the openingof a campaign so naturally leads,be contemplated with pleasure?Not surely by men possessingthe smallest portion of the milkof human kindness. These can !be beheld with complacency \and delight only by demons,]strangers at once to the softer |ifeelings of humanity, and those!)exalted conceptions of superior)'intelligences, by which, the mul4(titude of the heavenly host wemjtaught to sing, at the birth ot:HlM, WHOSELIFE AND DOCTRINES !WERE SO EMINENTLY CALCULA-!TED TO GIVE PEACE TO THI !nations: “Glory to God in thtlhighest, and on earth peace, g*ooc iwill toward men”^ -I