^ *Conjlant Lovers OvertbroiD**•*'*' X #TO WHICH ARE Ar.OST>,THE H,0 G G ’ S T U.B.'Hie PLOUGHMAN’S LG V E to theFARMER’S DAUGHTER.Hie SHEPHERDESS Lamentingher DROWNED LOVER.GLASGOW,rintcj by J. 6c M. Robertson, Salt'iaarkrt, tSc2THE KENi'-SHIRE TRAGEDY,\Eai>y lov’d a f ailact Sai’or,and die ador'd hu« a*? her life.-With Iciema vtaws and faithful tokens,fLe ivromifed to be his wife.• But creel parents, and deep at variance,tc thick fr.e (ov’d the young’ mao fo,By the hard hearted, they fooa were parted,which v?*as the eaufe of his overthtow.To th* Tsdies then this haedfome yoong man,was forc’d to quit the (Lore,Yor hr any a day as I heard fay,bu'; he never /aw his true id vs more..*51 deep dtslrf^iion this lovely Wly,to Bedlam then (he was confin’d 5 fme, Ik'tyirg, Death.comt esfe me, grid hath feiz’d! |Ohi what rac eafe a troubled mind.C! vvhat Hull I do ? or what fhaH I fay ?cr w'hat ha Ui / do ftr.ee my love’s gone ?From Caroliiin t>> Penfylvapia,Pil fearch the if dies round and roaud.Oil.board HI enter, my life to venture,for the young man whom I do adore;Ftotn Penfyj.vania to CarolinaHi fcarch ti:e Indies o’er and o’er.•.r( 3 y■Like one in battle, ray chaios IsH rattle,for the youn^ mai« whom I do adore.My heart’a a breaking, nnce. i?srt rcruktn,and aii by my pareati* craelty.0 vbat care I for gold and fitrer,for rubies, pearls, or precious flones,Or whaf care i for worldly treafiire,fince my true love is from me gone*Jlte a malefactor in grief Trapture^or like a cor.vift in revenge;,*iia?! fond love bas bound me faflcr,1 than all the ftrength of your Bedlamcha£?: "o fate refign’d, I’m here confin’d,i into this dungeon where I do ly jS'Vhy was I born, to be forlorn,? under the frowns of tyranny ?Bedlam’s Porter, be my comforter,1 and from this dungeon fet me free,r bring me to my dearefl jewel,: i that 1 once more his face may fee.1| deep defpair-tliis Lady fair,iiiu Bedlam died as I heard fay ;!\ that very night her faithful lover,in Bifeay-bay was caft away.;th lamentation and great vexation,her mother cry’d, my child is dead ;: prov’d her rum and (ad undoing,his day jter blood lies on mv head*{ 4 )'.:s go!4 aca graudure fiivh aa honour,that it my piece of mind deihojs,Tree lore I find it is much better,than any of fuch Citipty toys.?Jy wit is cracked, with grief diftra&ed,my mind runs like the Paging wares,'When t think bn thefe loyal lovers.KJ as ever my eyes did fee,But now flic is fo fancy grown,ifre cares nor a fig for me jShe invhed me home to her own houfe, «{he told mo I ne’er iTould be poor.Then (he ttimblM me into the hogg’s tub.Til ne’er go there any more.Chor. The hogg’s tub, the pickling tub, j• and rbe tub behind the door;She ttlrubled me into the hogg's tub,and i'll never go there any more. IITad I funk unto the bottom,as 1 iwam round the brim,'I lurely had be-rn drowned,and ne’er mc#c had been feen.But diere came by an old friend of mine,.an old friend that i knew before, .|He hauled ate out of the hpgg’s tub-I’ll ^ver go there! any ni >re.( 5 )| Then I tool: ray love by the lily white harjcl,faying. Madam, caa you dance ?And there came by an oid fidler,that play'd us a tnne by chaocr;There’s the Black-iinith, and the vVhitehnith,and the Gun-fmith, I can tell,So merrily round the hogg’s tub,we danc’d exceeding well. The, .Some fays killing is a great fia,but \ do not fay fo; • .For kiffing did th« world begin,forae thoufand years ago;iFc*r Adam kifs’d old Eye his wifejand Ihe by him bore a (bn,So killing did the world begin,' and I hope it ne’er wi’t be done. The &c*O if JiilUng was not lawful.Lawyers would not ofe it.And if it was not gofpei.the Parfon would refufe it:.And if it was uo: a dainty duh,the Ladies would not crave it,And if it was hot fweet like wine, .bonny Lades ne’er would have ic.C H O R a s.The hogg’s tub, the ricking tub,and the tub behind the door iShe tumbl’d me into the hegg’s tub,imd I’ll ne’er go ilvcre any more.The PLOUGH M AN'S LO VE ro the' FARMER’S DAUGHTER.\\7 H E N ilrft a-coarting I did t*o,\ f l lov’d a fair maid as any life,1 cFiea-tcld her 1 did her love, t did her love,but I never could gain her for ruy wife.3 fefv’d her father \vinters feven,from riang fun till tiine at night,Daly and truly as my life, as tay life,but I ne'er ’ceokigaia my heart’s delight.3 told her father feeretly,his daughter I did daily prize,Be lock’d her up iu a room io frigh, in, Stc.then fir ft began my miferks.J v/ent to rrty love’s chamber door,v-here oft-times f had been before.For rc let her know aad-cnderftand, and fee.I was going to fome foreign ihore..On Clipboard l then went ftraigkl\vapvand failed for fair flander’s fhorejI little thought what (hon'd me beta}, l &c.that I ne’er.fhouid fee my love more.When to ftir Idinders l did ccrae,o-o reft nor ccmiort could i find,Tho’ I did if and wita glafs in hand, girds, &c.jtift rhy tnre love ran in my mipd,( 7 )I took a piflol ia my haril;aiij rhir^e.! ir couragiouily,I (hot 3 ball into fair F.ogiar^l. into fair. &c.where l thought my true love might be.! When to fair England i retnrr/d,-I met her father in the {freer, '! My daughter ckir is dead, faid he, dead, &C.all for the fake of living thee.I weat.t© my lore's chamber door,- where oft-times,f had been before.; 1 here fprung a light from tay love’s clothe?,r ju(i Idee the morning fun when rofe.1 All young men who a cou-iing go,who never sia4e the. bells to ting.ivGo no mere into ftrady groves, into ihady &c»lor to hear the fweet Dightinva/C fing.The S H E P id E ROES S Lameiuing he?I) R O W W E D LOVE R.t X 7 E maids of the village attend.| the forrowful tale l now fpe;:k,Ob ! rdufe nor your comfort to lend,for n y heart is juft ready to ureal. 1Yc knew n>y dear Caledon wdli,he was fprightiy, and bantiiotne. & young,I Oo his lips what pcrfinfrui did dwell?I how melodioufiy (oft was his fo4»g!( S )He wao.al! my fond hear: e’er cltfir’d;he wa? all that rcas ptn’rous and brave jWhat pity the charms I admir’d,from death had no power to fare.But juft as the day did approach,to give the dear youth to my arm*?,From the water they brought me his corpfe,how faded were all his gay charms!As the lily, when drooping with rain,deje&edly hangs down his bead.So hiDguifh'd his beautiful cheek,and its vermilion was fled.His voice, that as mufic was fv/eet,no more l enraptur’d fhall heat;No mere the fond fwaiu fhall repeat,a talc of feft love in mine ear.Convey the dear youth to his grave,left his beautiful for71 l adore.Yet one fllent kifs let me have,for alas ! I fhall ne’er fee him more.Ye maidens attend on this day,and flrew all the path way with flowers.And oh ! the kind Deities bear!may their love be more happy than ours.As for n.e, I will henceforth bewarehow in love-1 engage my fond heart;For though love is a joy, how fevertis the pang from a lover to part ?Gtafgow, Printed b»-J* &• M. Rcbcufon, Sislrmait ft. jSci.