TH E3Pretty Green-Coat Bay'sGARLAND.••IN FOUR PAUL'S.A.Rr I Shewing how irich Lori s Sjnhi Princete l in lo.e Aith a tfarui; ‘s Daughter,A.K.r I. tiow they were dicfcvcrird oca aG; ove-Tde, and huW they atue overhea d byh^« Father. takt It’. Ko* h;« Father b3r:ifh;d hitn,'andtnouahf to'trailrpwrt, her, On fhe got hi\(eia gre:n Livery, a;ni went with him as ? Page.>rt IV. Aft-r feven year** travel they ic-turned Jho nc and ho * his Father and Motlierreceived the o wLh jor and gladiu'i, and hadt ie cn manned.Edinburgh, printed|J.by Morion,O rhea would I f; e-.'iy rePgiv up any breath,f ■ r herfc I-Wth wc»r» 6? liviiiw on earth,Theu the <we!t licavati doth pay meAnd £,rairf fne 51 figh. yf mv jtwrl tu feeThen fphke hr? love in pate? array,Como let u go home, dear hr, i pray,Aon there your true levenyau iurclv will find.Your father-aml m6the. both loving a*d kind.My fweet lovely child l pity thy calc.Rut I am xci<n*fd to die in <im place.My iatlttr afid mother L nev.T will fee.Beraufe in my h-ve they p.c.v’d ccuel to me.O do net (ay )o then arfwei'd the lad.Your istiier Id See yod wdnid furc ly be giad ;And alfo yoar mother who on' you doth wait.Would he gald to i-.e.ytpu and flf to ycur feet.tie heard wlrat (he faid end took her advj'tr:.Then itibugxjf (hipping they iaihd in a trice,Unto fair Durance cit f* v. hen Icuied they were.He unto his parents did Araigat repair.PART IV.nnliengeirg towar ds h&mc w-th tears ia his eye*At fttfl his rati er and n«»tiier he Iptes;For as they werq ft-.n -ing heth at : ,e door,Ther fpilti thH- fon to. 0 diftr fTeci add poof.His father laid, yonderTorntth your fo.i.His niotlfer with joy a ay did run;toon as Ihf law him fuelled in a fwoc^i,^.i>d rith perfidl joy die fell to the t n untJ.Then in they,went with joys 1 ver fpread,“.-he father to lee hi» ion was . vtr glad ;Kor joy of his cto .ing great t ailing wa, made,Rut yet for Lit Jovei hi* heart w as lad.Ttie father (aid, io» makes you fo (ad,Pm lure to I .e you my heart it is gUd;' thou i ar.ft but love ir.e iweet Jenny fait! lie,lady rf honour y< u quickly (hail be.She !aid noble lord 1 would be year bridejt what wiil become of u> both e :eplf‘d ?year honour'd father Qv>utd chance to knovr,)<k you lovi a peer farmersaiatigiiter lo.If my fa;her chance to be an^ry with me.■ u y ir.o;her frown when my jewel flto does fee,1 work while i m able to follow the plow,nd get ray bread by the fweat of my brow,I hope my Jenny will never complain,hatever I promife while life d» h remain,faithfully perfo Di my jewel laid he,Jenny content my hside for to be,PART II.S they were diftourfing by a grove we hear,^ Hie father wa« w Iking to take the air,drew near to them by a ditch fide,sere thefe levin met this debate to decidedAnd having heard what between them did pals,came to his Ion and laid to him slat!e you going to diigracc cur family,e farthibg I never will give unto thee,iat ftraigbt will banifii you fiom this place,ju (halt not be to me a leurn and difgrace,wedding a hufbandman'i dafighter lb poeti fo fon do not come nigh me any more,rhe fon on his knees to his father did lay,lo not take from me my jewel f p*j if I'm oblig’d to beg for my dear,travel the woi ld around far and near.‘he father in a rage to the mother did go.told her the news with a heart fuk or woe,Sweet wife your fen will be wedded in 'eedr.. a farmer s daughter, it makti my heart bleedUmo whom fweet hrfb md the wife did replyTo one of our iennaut? that iivei hard by,V/i h that his mother ;n a paffion did run,Go fach mo my f». n or t am undone.Ue came in her pretence when the Jaw his face,0 fon thou halt bre ugbt me to ihuiiie & l if^race.By jjmiog to one th«t‘s not httiug for thee,1 am not v.eJdtii iwcct mother faid he.The iot! c n his knees to hk another did rrv.If you pait me fre;n> my jewel I lu>ei> will die.Was i a lord of ten thousand a year,id pat with ii all for the lake of r,:v dear.T e father in a paiuon replie:- to his fon,I will take heed >ou Ihalt not lie undone,And fot the jewel thou deft love fo dear,III have he. nan Sported, <or vou fhah not hearWhich way the is gene or where (he docs go,And how to find htr you never fliall know,With that the for, fell on hi, kn es;De^r fa h; r do with me jnlt as yoc pleafe.Now 1*11 leate trie fon in tears t. conapiais,And unto the farmer s daughter retiTUSI e k.-,o ving hi: father would lend her uway,She went to the tailor the vt- y n xt c; :y,\' d ba giio d w td him for a liv’n cf green,Coar, wafitcoat and bn C' hes fo ueai and to uim.She got a blatk bag and tier up her huhAnd then for hei journ flic did p epare.She goes to ‘hi tx> n wherea fhr did dwell.Good people no’v mind b; t - ha f fhall tt U.The lord f nt his tervants to briu, uer wi h fpeed)io hepts to h;.ve h i t anlported indird,THcy came to hrr t. ther and-this thev did roWc d©uit far your daughter to lend ha a*uy{ci\ if ii is loj am ^lad tie rcpiiiS,i,’i b that the yeung icrd nioft bitredy crie*.The very n t. n>orning vih .n r ay light did peepf:ie mother rofe ancj k i he faiber afleep,he wt-Ri tb her ion ar.d u> Idai did fayJaving op am the coor where lamenting he lay.She Lid tweet-foQhcrtL five hundred pound*,Lnd take thy hoik auc ,■© out ef town,Before thy ia.her get* out of hk fl ep,4 y bl-fling go vitu ihce th^o they cid weep^i thank you char mother the Ion did reply,\t pariinp: botn k k <1 and did bitterly cry;'lies he I 11 nave, the world lar and mar,[n (cat ch of my jc \*el whom I love fo dear.p a k r in.T'krEN taking his haife away he did go,* heaving his pitrents in for row and woc»3ut as he was tiding along the high way,f~e met with hi* lova in page s array.She oowed to hv.n witn cap in hand,fld (aid t ob t: lord [ do underiland,rhat yc u ate going a journey, faid (he,lft.rt you wil tng t^ have inch a lervant as me?He faid my pretty lad what is year name ?And wmre was yoa noro tell me the fame,[ vat bom in Durance, kind fir, faid (he,Adonis is the name my parents gave me.He iaiu you’r a p.ctty lad as f do lire.And A f- i thy wages 1 furely will give;W: re I iO navel the world round faid he,A comlicr child I could never lcc»( « )He bought her* herfe and away they did ride.With fwcids, cafe and pt/iois, and al! by her flde;At length they did trayei many a long day,Until they were weary alnvilt we hear fsyrNow we will leave them in grief for a while,And torn to the lord to grieve tor his child,The old man ariftag and nailing his foriHe {tampv like a madhn n and Hid Pni undone.Siis wife fakl to him cruel you wire,To banifh from me my ion and my heir,Thou waft cruel thus to Ipo l my 'on in love,Perhaps it may to hwn his deilltftioo p eve,The father esifs lTm griev d t(, the heart,With thinking my !oa ih old !o i om me part;For cow he is gone the wide wt rid to range,But had 1» been here ■ y mind 1 would change.1 v.ifn 1 i a : g ven him my confent to wed.But now tv: is gone thy joys a e all (1 d;If he and his love werr w.th a e here now,With all thar ‘ Iratre i would her endow.Now we w il leave ihemno borrow and moan,Ai d t ack again to the foil'return.Who Spent al! bis days in lee ch for his dear,And ho* he did find her you loon lb a 1 '.ear.Alth.o, lie was 'ea c'ling or her n ght audday,She wande d will) him in pages an ayA'd each figi t with him in bed d d lip,Ana was partaker in his calamity.vVbea he did lam- nc f made her to weep,That very few ub'hls they cou d evei fl ep,Thus for want of rdt, uno thro great p ’-verry.They in hrange co i f'-ic* wen like to die.Along they did travel in lot row a d grief.From oocr to dcor begging to : relictWhich n ad« the young loul fhtd many a tsar.And cry, had I cnee but a fight ot my dear.3PKE FRiinT GRKfc.K-CO'Vt BUY.p a n r i.)U pretty malslt and batihelcrs IwectCo nc drar. n: nr to r'C rh/c I do rclite,a ime ftorv as tver vou did iieai;•tefore good peopse I p<>-. now draw near. ,ear Dtrance in r*ranee here liv’d it* a town,abie lord of grea^ • '-rue i,nd renown,a had a lice lady and by Lei we hear,v.-d a fine fen whom he loved dearbe: wis an cld farmer who lived juft by> had a "fine (Sauyh tr a* e’e yoo did (py,in the cciinirV iheie never was b-ed,, a (Wee' cfatore for both white and red,h .eh tna’de the nebili y !>*-th tar and near,e io; d?, jAd knights thither to repair,:< uple this beauty but ah was in vaine none i F them cou d her favour obtain.l knit, vh?r loi’ ion among all the refl,ic in tudhffe^ to h r as I do proteft, ‘erty fWett jenny how grant me thy love,■He you ir.y deftruttion will prove,ie Gid n -ble lord. I an; pcor and low,.a .hc' s a poo- farmer you k»6w,1 he is is not able to portion me,lo-fo conlent I'm net wilting laid flic,I yield unto you perhaps ihey yrillfay,i b.rd h is thrown iiimieii quite away,lo cobie lord we fhall neve! agree,hour sg an is much ft* ter for me.j o ■ ittetk his biead by tliefweUt of his brow,itii take* delight to follow the plow,,ja^ mo e aeli^bt I’li make it appear,t; a no de knight of ten thottfuad a year.C * ) ijr that your lover was but here now,With all that I luve i woulo rou enrlow.His lover Sanding bv m pages array.’.Vith tears in her eves flie-to him did fay,I’.’tl the young creature tkat fn .uid be your brideAldus feven years Jong I have lain by your fide.With that the young io er wa^ in amaze.And for a brig time upon her di;t gaze,Art thou Hi p^or fanner’s daughter, laid he.Who feveo years have hegg; i wi h me ?Thrn 'aid his fa'hei fore taat cannot be,Tha; you whotr. he ioug it was in his company ;Now 1 conlent you (ball he his bri e.Thai word has rev ved me, tiiefon he rcply’d.They feat fo' the fathcrond mother vit'i IpeedTo bear of her coming thev we: e glad indeed jCom p ay us a jig the old wom n lid cry.Since rry dabghtcr’s a lady 1‘ 1 d ace (ill i die. ;They fenr to the genuy b th ‘ar and near,to view this couple they did thither repair,Koi a finer t oup:e there never was feen.The old farm r s daugiiter as fine as a q men,Ler a I loyal lovei» take w>ru ag >y tnn,D® as they did and ycu‘ll never do a iU,If you were to t avei the world al ro md,two loyaler lover? could never b. fouad.FINIS.*