ACRYFROM THED E AO R, THEGHOSTO F T H EFamous Mr James Guthrie appearing/Being the laft Sermon he preached in the Fulpitof Stirling, before his Martyrdom at EdinburghtJune, 1661.To which is addccf,His laft SPEECH upon the Scaf old.FAISLEY •* Printed by Peter M'Arthuk, for Tno/STBveNSOM, the Publilher.. . ....T OTHEreader:PERHAPS it may be thought fomewhat flrang*?*how a fermon of that great and good man,Mr James Guthrie, once minifter of Stirling, fhouh!come abroad about 77 years after his death, he havingbeen crowned with martyrdom fh the year 1661. Therccafion of its feeing the light is as follows : Januarythis fame year, I had occafion to be in company withmy worthy and dear father and colleague, Mr Aiexanrd cr Hamilton, in the manfe of Stirling, a few days be¬fore his departure to glory. And having heard thatthe fermon was in his hand, I took occafion to enquireat him about it. He told me, that it was not at pre-fent in his euftody, having lent it out to a Chriftianfriend about eighteen miles diftance; but allowed meto fend for it; adding, that he would be well pleafed!it were publifhed. I a Iked him further, of the waybe came by it ? To which he replied, that for whatbe knew, it had lien in the clofet of the roomwhere he and I were fitting, fmee Mr Guthrie’s in¬cumbency, until one day he fell upon it, as he wasturning over fome old papers, which had lien there heknew not how long.Some days after Mr Hamilton’s death, I wrotefor it accordingly. And that fame authentic copywrit, as I was told, by Mr Guthrie’s own hand,goes to the prefs. The only reafon of its lying fewng ia ©bfeurity befide me, is the thron| of cthejA 2work which nectiTarily devolved upon me In thisplace, after the lofs of my brother colleague, ftillintending, when time allowed, to fay fomething byWay of preface: but the fame ftrait continuing uponme, I am obliged after all, through the importunatecries of many who have heard of it, to let it gp withfaying little or nothing. Only I regard it as a pieceof honour put upon me in holy providence, not on¬ly to be the unworthy fucceffor of that great man,but the publiiher of the lad fermon that ever hepreached in the pulpit of Stirling: where it is mydefire, the fame teftimony of Jefus, for which he dif¬fered unto death, may be maintained unto the lateftppltcrity.What may be in the womb of this providence of the jrefarreftion of Mr Guthrie’s laft fermon in Stirling, jafter it has been fo long buried with himfelf in the dulland rubbiih, God only knows, and time mud difeo- 1Ter : only ccnndering the way of its refurreiftion andconveyance, it looks like a cry from the dead, to the.whole land; but in a particular manner, to the con¬gregation cf Stirling, upon whole watch tpwers it was |delivered.I have*; thought the manner of the conveyance ofthis fermon to public view at this time of day, oneof the curious links of the great chain of divine pro- jvidence. . The’reverend Mr Alexander Hamilton,when he was but a youth at the college of Edin- .burgh, from a jud regard he had to the memory ||pf Mr. Guthrie, and the caufe in which he differed, V.Was excited at the peril of his life to take down with fhis own hand Mr Guthrie’s head from the Nether-bow-Port of Edinburgh, where it had dood as a <1public fpe£lade for about twenty feven or twentyeight years. The very fame perfon is ordered thir¬ty eight years thereafter to fucceed him in the mi-riftry, and uphold his teftimony in the pulpit7« the Reader. JfStirling for the fpace of twelve years. And althougha good many minifters, both of the prefbyterian andcpifcopal perfuafion had pofleffed the manfe of Stirlingforce the death of Mr Guthrie ; yet none of them aredirected to difcover his hirewel fermon in Stirling, tin-till the fame hand is employed, which v/as honouredto take down his head, -and to give it a decent and ho¬nourable burial,I make no doubt, but the above remark will appear■whimfical and contemptible, as well as the fermon it-felf in the eyes of a generation of men in our day,'* who are wife in their own eyes but w hatever maybe the fentiments of men, whofe ‘.minds the god of‘ this world hath blinded yet the work of the Lordis honourable and glorious, and wall ‘ be fought out* of all them that have pleaiure therein. Whofo is •* wife, and obfervfth thsfe things, even they fhall un-derftand the loving-kindnefs of the Lord.’ But how.vful is the certification to thofe, who' fhut their eyesand ears ngainft the appearances of God in his provi¬dential difpenfatipns ? Pfalm xxviii. 5. ‘ Becaufe they 'regard not the works of the Lord, nor the operationsof his hand, he fliall deftroy them, and not buildthem tip.*As ■ fontoJiave been longing and cryingf^br the'publication ofcthis fe. on; fo I am apt to-believe,feme others will wifh, that it had been buried in[filence for ever. Neither needs this appear ftrange.fis te/limony when alive, tormented the men who:hen dwelt upon earth to that degree, as to ftone:his great feer in Ifrael, and afterwards to imbruetheir hands, in his blood: and therefore, it cannotbe very eafy or pleafant to thofe who are treadingin .the fame fteps, by attempting the burial , of that:aufe and work of reformation for which he fuffer-:d martyrdom, to hear his voice clying from under6 To the R.eaJer.the alter cr his dying teftimony again flaring them op*only in the face.I make no doubt to fay, it was the tcfdmcby of Je-fus for which this faithful martyr Mr James Guthriefuffered. ,What that teftimohy was will partly call«p from the. following papers, both of them compil¬ed by him, when drawing nigh to eternity. Thefermon was preached, Auguft 19th, 1660. and h#imprifoncd the Thurfday thereafter. The other pa-per is his fpeech upon the fcaffold the year following.By thefe and his other papers and contendings, con¬tained in Mr Wodrow’s hiflory, ‘ he being dead, yetfpeaketh’ unto the-living. And it will be eafy /or thejudicious and ferious reader to difcem who are inour day bearing up, and who are bearing down,and burying the caufe for which .he contended tint#blood.There is a loud cry railed again ft a few minifteri,who are afl’ociated together for reformation,ms if theyWere fchiftriatics and feparatills, though they^were atfirfl fhut out and fepara te from their brethren, becaufethey could not abandon the word of their teflimony,emmittcd for the covenanted reformation of Scotland,fealed with the blood of this and many other worthies.But, in my humble opinion, thefe only Redeem¬ed feparatifts, be they few or many, whtfTeparate frontthe truth and who do not hold the Head Chritl Jefu*,and the order he hath dlablifhed in his houfe. Ithas been made evident iu a printed aft and teftimpny*wherein the prefent judicatories, and the whole land,have departed from that truth and order. The onlything demanded by thefe brethren, in order to a har¬monious coalition, is the reformation of thefe corrup¬tions, and a purging out of thefe fcandals by which thewhole lump is in hazard of being leavened. Inlleadi*f a compliance with fojuft and rtaicnahk it (kmajidjl,farther higher fleps of d*fe£ion are every yearfone into, and meafures laid by the laft aflembly forurying them and their tellimony both. Whether|j thii, be a holding fail deceit, and a refufmg to re¬s' turn to the Lord, is eafy to judge. And in thiajj cafe the command is plain, Jer. rv. 19. ‘ Let' ‘ them return unto thee, but return not thou untoj ‘ them.’When the reformation of corruptions, and the| purging out of evident fcandals is the only condi-|l tion demanded, what can be the reafon that it isI not granted! One of the two it muft needs be,tij viz. either becaufe the judicatories will not, orIf elfe becaufe they cannot reform. If it be becaufe theyI' will not they are to be withdrawn from as wicked. IfIj it be becaufe they cannot, or want power, it fays, the|. keys of difcipline is taken from them, and that theyll are not Chrift’s officers and ftewards. The difcipline'« of Chi ill’s appointment muft needs be afufficient meansf for phe prefervation and reformation of his own houfe.tj In both thefe cafes, the judicious CW« is of Opinion, a!'l clpirch is to be feparate from. The reafon is plain,! becaufe ftie is feparate from the Head, whom we areto hotd at any rate, though it,were to the lois of com-j ynunion with the whole world.I am apt to think that the two horns of the above di¬lemma, are lufficient to overthrow Mr Currie’s volu¬minous eflay upon reparation. By which, in Ihe op-pinion of many, he has deftroyed thefe things which| Ik lormerly built up. But the fallacy and weaknefs ofhis reafonings, and the injuries he has done, both t«aifts of aflemblie’s, and particular authors, I hope, ina Ihort time may be fufficiently expofed. Had I beenfavoured with a fight of the manui'eript before publica¬tion, and a few hours converle with my dear brother,according to wonted intimacy and freedom, withnot& To the Reader.boafting, I perfuade myiel£ it had never feen the light.I value the man, I am lorry for his condudt; andpray for his recovery. But want of time, as washinted above,' and fear- of iwelling the pamphlet, o-bliges me to forbear feveral other things I inclined tofay.That the fame Spirit of God, and of glory, whichenabled the worthy author of the following papers tocontend unto death, for the royal prerogatives of hisgreat Mafter, the only Head, King, and Lawgiver ofhis church, may in the perufal of his following teftirmonies, enter into the foul of every reader, is the pray¬er and defire of him who isThine in the work of the gofpelof Chrift Jefus,Stirling, Aug- 14.i738‘ASERMONPreached at Stirling, by Mr James Guthrie*On the Sabbath-day in the forenoon, being the 19thof Auguft, 1660. Upon the 2 ad verfe of the xiy.chap, of Matthew. He did alfo read the 23d and24th verfes of the fame chapter : but had not occa-lion to preach any more : he being imprifoned theThurfday thcreaftcriText; *Matth. xir. 22,23*24.And Jlraight-vjay yefus conjirained hit difciples to get intod jhip, and go before him unto the other Jide, •while hefent the multitude away . And when he had fent the mul¬titude away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray?and when the evening was come he was there alone. Butthe Jhip was now in the midjl of the feat tcjfed •ixithwaves : for the wind was contrarytIT is of purpofe, and by choice, in reference to thocondition and trial of thefe times, we have refolv-ed, through the Lord’s affiftante, to fpeak fomewhatof this piece of trial, and of the ftorm wherewith’ thedifciples of ouf Lord Jefus Chrlft were etetcifed at fea,and the rather we have chofen to fpeak fomewhat ofthefe words, becaufe they were the choice of a veryprecious and worthy man, to fpeak in a day of trial*I mean, of that eminent fervant «f God, John Knox,# Mark ri. 46. JohnvI.( IO )whom tho Lord did help to. be a mod eminent inurn¬ment df tile work of reformation in the church fkve%all pot mo 'h Itand on any particular unfolding ofthe bram:lies of the text, but take them%as they ly inorder, '"he thing We defire you firft to look to, is,how V, : dory that is recorded in thefe verfes, is knitwith ihde that go before, for we will fiud them knittogether by many of the evangelifts, viz. the dory ofthe glorious miracles wrought by Jefus Chrid the Lord,i n feeding fo many thoufands of people with a fewloaves, and a few little fillies, after this that fad trialwhich the difciples met with at fea : they are knit bythe evangel! d Matthew, Mark, and John, after thatthe Lord Jefus Chrid had preached to the people and”Iris difcipLes, and had fed many thoufands with a fewleaves and a few little fiihes, and had manifeded muchoi’his power and glory, (‘ he condrains his difciples‘ to get into a fhip, and to go before him unto the o»-‘ ther fide, while he fent the multitude away,’) he fendshis difciples tio the fea, and the multitude away, thatthey iliould not for a feafon hear any more of his doc¬trine and fee any more of his miracles.That we may lay a foundation for fomewhat for youredificatioft. bird, It may be enquired, Why it isthat he fends-a way both his difciples and the multitudexl that time, and would have an interruption of hisdfidrine and miracles, when he fends, his difciples to1rW fca, and the multitude to their own home ? If wei - v the other evangel!Its, we will find the caufes-there enough, Mark vi. 52. the caufe is given there*.why hv thus exercifed his difciples ; ‘ For they confi- ,‘ dered not the miracle of the loaves, for their hearts-*'were hardened.’ Albeit, the Lord Jefus Chrid had jrevealed much of his power and glory in the miracle ofthe loaves: yet-his dilciples did not duly confider there¬of: thereforehe would needs exercife them with a dorm,and a temped at fea, that they might both be taughtin the knowledge of their own weakuefs, and alio might( 11 )'l>e "better fchooled in the failh of his power and glcr*The reafon why ‘ -he fent the multitude away,’ is let.down in the gofpel written by John, chap. vi. 26. \\ henthe multitude comes again, ‘Verily, verily, Ifayun-4 to you, ye feek me, not becauie ye law the miracles,■4 but betaufe ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.’Compare it with that , in the 15th verfe, ‘ "When jdus‘ Chriit perceived therefore that they would come andtake him by force and make him a king, he. depart-* ed again into a mountain himlelf alone.’ die knewthat for all that they had feen andiieard of his ».:; dand miracles, they were of a very carnal ditpo f t ^11, andfeeking to eftablifij themfelves carnal proi'peiUy endpeace : therefore he.fent them away for a tin ■_From the connection efthefe two Jjdftories, au :’ tronjthe feepe of the w’hole, we offer you one point cl doc¬trine; that the Lord jefus Chrift is oft times, and ol-• dinarily pledfed after fjpecial manifefiatiens of his pow¬er and glory in his church, and amorgll his people, to,«xercife then) with fpecial pieces of trial, and troubles,and florms. After his doing of great wor k f. v theircomfort, he is ordinarily pleafed, to raife gm.t anddreadful florms and tempeft.s,fcr their cxereife.ar d trial.t| So here, when he hath in a moil comfortable, and: kindly way, banqueted them, and revealed much of-his power and love in fo doing, he fends (hem a ftermand temped, on the back of it, and will have an in¬terruption of his dotflrine and miracles for a time, where¬in they are all like to be drowned,1 ft Injiance. There are many inftances in the word,of the Lord’s dealing thus ; look in the books of Kelpswhat follows on the back of that glorious deliverance,Itbat the Lord gave to the people of Ifred cut of Lgj pt;they arc exercifed 40 years in the wildeinefs, in whichthey had many a fad day, ere they ente• ed the land ofCanaan.2d Inft. The like we may fee in the church c reV 1 Sam. The Lord gave a great deliver ( f2 )the Philiftines V>y the miniftry of hlsfenrart Samuel, nnc!a glorious blefled work of reformation tfcere was, butall that was again deftroyed by the hand of Saul,- andpcrfecutiou raifed againft the church of God.3d Inft. A third inftance ye will find, if ye will readthe hiftory of die reign of Hezekiah and Manafi'ehkings of Judah, as it is. recorded in the fecond book ofChronicles 5 there was a great reformation in the daysof Hezekiah, a covenant (worn by the king, princes,priefts, and the whole body of the land ; all corruptioncaft out, the pure worfhip and ordinances of God lettip, but there was a dreadful trial by die hand of Sen¬nacherib ; fp fcarcely was Hezekiah well in his grave, ;till Manaifeh fucceeds in his room, and brings in cor-tuptiop and perfecution, both at once.4th Inft. A fourth inftance was in die days of Jo-Ikih, how much of the power, and glory of the Lordis manifcfted ; blit how fad a trial comes on the backof it, that the church feems to be wholly defaced by theking of Babylop.5th //ft. A fifth inftance we will find, after dn*return of Ifrad out of Babylon ; in the iv. of Ezra, thefoundation of the Lord’s houfe is laid ; but in a littlewhile the work is interrupted, till die fecond year ofDarius the king, by die derilipn and enmity of wickedmen.6th //ft. A like inftance you fhall alfo find in theNew Teftilincnt; look what a length our blefled Lordbrought the work of the golpel, but what follows inthe xvi. of John, 31ft and 32d yerfes, ‘ Do ye now be-4 lieve ? Behold the hour cpmeth, yea, is now come,* that ye (hall be fipattered every man to his own, anti4 lliall leave me alone.’ And he is crucified, and laidin his grave, and a ftohe laid on the grave’s mouth,and little appearance that ever there fhould have beermore mention of him in the land of the living.7th loft. Then look another inftance in. the days o:|the <1 cities, in the 1,2, 3, 4, and 5, chapters of dvf( )Aifls, what a blefied reformation there was ; hut iithe clofe.of fhe vi. chap, and in the beginning of the8th,. ye fee. what a fed interruption- and i'cattering thereis in the church andperfecution railed againft it.il 8th Ir,Ji. And as there are many inftances in die(word, fb there are many inftances in the ftory of thechurch, many great things'’v. ere done, by the apoftles,and a glorious reformation there was in the bringing inof the Gentiles; but how dreadful a perfecution is raif-ed through all the world. .9th InJ}. And there is a notable inftance when theLord began to reform the church from the darknefsbfpopery, by that worthy inftrument Luther: but lliortlyafter, did not Charles the fifth raife a cruel war, againftall the princes of Germany, and raifed cruel edicts a-I .gainft all that clave to the church.loth Injf. And alfo, in the days of king EdwardI the fixth, thajt good prince, what a glorious work wasin England ; but few years after that godly prince di¬ed, queen Mary fucceeds, brings in popery, and raii'e*i a bitter perfecution againft the laints of God.nth InJ}, And ye cannot be fo great ftrangers t«i your ovn condition at home ; how fed an interruptionthe work of reformation met with from the prelatesmotlong ago.So that there is nothing more ordinary in the churchf than after the Lord has communicate himfelf in a fpe-I cial way in his power and glory, than to exercife themwith fed ftorms and tempefts on the back of it.Concerning this difpenfetion, we would fitft, enquirea little into the grounds and reaions of it, why the Lordfees it fit to do fo ? Next, into the kinds of it, or in whatfeveral ways it is, that he fees it fit to do fo?For the reafons, grounds, and caufes of it, we fhallnot fpeak of many, though’many might be fpoken of;but ftiortly touch fome of the moft common and -obvi-I pus.j ift fynfon. Tuft, The Lord makes fucli a chargingr h )«Fhis dealing with his church, for the chaftifmg of hisfin, and correcting of their iniquity. A people towhom he manifefts himfelf in his power and glory, andutercy,'and truth, do not always behave theml’elvesas they ought to do, but even while he is dealing kind¬ly with them, they domanjwaysprovoke him to wrath,therefore God, for corre<5Hng their fin, and chaftifmg•their iniquity, brings troubles and ftcims upon them.In the xcix. Pfalm, the Lord is brought to take ven¬geance 6h the inventions of his people in the wildemefsthat ye may underhand this the better, look the Ixxviii.Plalm, which is a clear commentary to this, where his>rod (wherewith he punilhed that people in the wilder-ncfs, and delayed their entrance into Canaan, and theiriin both are let down: their unltedfaftnefs in the Lord’s•covenant. Ye may look fome of the proofs of thefofins.ift Sin. Firft, In the loth and i ith verfes of Pfal.Ixxviii. ‘ They kept not the covenant of God, and re-4 fufed to walk in his law: and forgat his works, and4 wonders that he had {hewed them.’ They were un-Acdflift in the Lord’s covenant. In the xix. and xx.chapters of Exodus, they entered in a molt folemn co¬venant with God, that all of them undertook to Handto, and to prove faithful therein ; but they kept nothis covenant but dealt deceitfully in it, therefore hebrought fudh ftorms on them in the wildemefs, and fbJong fufpended their entrance in the premhed land.2d S/h. A fecond fin is, in the 18th verfe, they fin¬ned yet more, 4 and tempted him in their hearts, byalking meat for their lulls. They arc not fatisfiedwithtilings that God has allowed them, but luffed afterIIrange things, and became luftful in their appetites :therefore God is wroth and excrcifeth them in the"wil-dernefs.jd S/rf. A third fin is, in the 22d verfe, their dif¬fidence and unbelief; they believed not God, and rrul-tted not in his falvation j they put tempting qUelfious,((i concerning his power and goodnefs in the r Qtn verfe>‘ Can God furnifh a table in the wildernefs ?’ There-| fore he thus exercifed them with ftorms.^th Sin* A fourth fin is, they defpifed and' under-: valued the precious manna which God fertt down froml heaven, for feeding of them, Numb. xxi. 5. ‘ Ouri fouls loathed this light bread.5th Sin. A fifth fin is, their murmuring, grudgingand repining againft God.6th Sin. A lixth fin is, their complaint of coming| out of Egypt; their rebelling and fpeakirig of a captainto return back again.I 7th Sin. The laft fin is, their corrupting the wor-Ihip of God, and making a golden calf. And becanfe©f thefe fins, the Lord is angry and corre&eth1 and chaftifcth them forty years long in tjj^ wild.er-1 nefs.2d Reafori. A fecond reafon is, the Lord’s bring¬ing fad ftorms on the back of glorious manifeftationsofhimfelfin his (word and works, is, for purging ofhis people. As he will correct them, and have themto know the bitternefs of their fin, fo he will have themto be purged of it. There is a fad trial in the . xi. of■Daniel, and this is given as the reafon of it; to purge,to try, to make white, in the 35th verfe, ‘ And fomc* of them of underftanding (hall fall, to try them and* to purge, and to make them white, even to the time‘ of the end : becaufe it is yet for a time appointed.’There is in the church and people of God, much drofs,therefore he fees it necefl’ary, they be put to the fire,,for purging away of their drofs.3d Reafon. A thirdreafon wherefore the Lordbringicfad ftorms, on the back of glorious manifeftations, ofhimfelf, is, for difcoveiing and bringing forth the hy¬pocrites and fuch as are unfound, Daniel xi. 34. Many-cleave to the Lord’s people by flattery : efpecially, iti is fo, when the Lord is eminently appearing, and re¬vealing himfelf glorioufly ia bit works; many thea un-dertake a profeflion in whole hearts there Is no fmceri-'ty and truth ; many then cleave to the caufe and workof God by flattery, which his foul cannot endure; there¬fore he brings a winnowing fan, and lets them up be¬fore the wind, that he may know who is chaff and whois corn. -Pill. exxv. 4, 5. ‘ He doth good to thofe that‘ are upright in heartbut ‘ as for fuch as turn afidc4 to crooked ways, the Lord (hall lead them forth with4 the workers of iniquity.' Therefore for difeovery offuch, he fends fad A or ms on the back of reformation.Another reafon of the Lord’s bringing fad Aorms'and tempeAs on his people, on the back of gloriousnaanifdlations of himfelf, is, that he may prove andtake a trial of the integrity, faith and patience of hisfaints; and in trying of them to purdhafe glory to him-felf, and artiame to them. 1 Pet. i.'7. c That tlie trial4 of your nTth (being much more precious than gold4 that periflieth; though it be tried with fibe), might4 be found unto praife, and honour and glory at the4 appearing of Jdits CKrift.’There is allb a reafon, concerning ndverfaries, winchwe (hall not now meddle with.But we come to the fecond point, how it is, or inwhat feveral forts of ways it is, that the Lord is pkafedthus to difpeitfe, I mean to fetid Aorms and trials on hislefvants and people, immediately on the back of fomeglorious appearance and notable works of kindnefs andmercy amongft them. There might be a great manyways named, how the Lord is pleafed to do thus; weIh all name only four generals.ift IVny. FirA, He does it fometimes by interrupt¬ing ofhis work. Thus he did it in that place cited be¬fore, Ezra iv. After the foundation of the Lord’shoufeis laid, a company of malignant men, enemies to thepoor people of God, and his work, who are exceedingill fatisfied that the work of God ihould profper, theycome by all means to interrupt the work of God ; andwhen they could jjot prevail by tfatfery, .{hey go tqthc... . ( *7 )•kmg of Perfia, and load the people of God with fitlfiafperfions, that they were about: to rebel, &£, by Whichfiiggefiiohs they obtained letters from the king, c<5ro-fnanding them to ceafe building of tbeteVn’ple.sna when' the copy of the king’* letter was read, they made themto ceafe by force and power, IsV.2d fray. A fecond way if, by comiption, when hefufFers evil mftruments, not only to make an interrup¬tion", blit to make a corruption, fo to fpeak, and tofn ingle thefe with the purity of his ordinances and Wdr-fhip. God raifes up ill inftruments to make people lickup the vomit of thel’e corruptions, vrtiich have been for¬merly call out. There had been ablefled reformationin the days of Hezekiah, and all corruption call out,but all that corruption is brought in again in the daysofMahaffeh, and more and worfe than erer had beenbefore.3d Waj. A third way is, by deftruftion, fo to fpeaknot only what the work of reformation is interrupted,and corrupted, but when it is deftroyed and taken «•way. There is in the days of Zedektah, a total de-ftroying of the temple, and all the work.4th JVaj. A fourth way is by perfecution to thefethat cleave to the truth and work of God. Thus it wasih the days of the apoftles, Aits v„ They fall on th»minifters of the Lords houie, and flay fome of themwith the'lword,and put others in prifcti; ‘ fo they could* ‘ not preach the word in Jerufalem.* Some one or allof thefe ways, the Lord lets on foot fuch difpenfati as.ijf Ufe. We would now fpeak femewhat of the ufe•we would make of it. And, firr', It fays this to us,that we of this church and nation would be looking fora ftorm: the Lord hath been gracioufly pleafed tomake glorious difeoyeries of his pow^r and mercy inhis word and works aroongft us, now thefe many yearsand even on that account, w-e would be looking for aftorm : and we fhall give you thefe few reafoi»s wh*r-«--f*r« wre would look fer k.C( )rfl Reafon. Becaufe, as I told you, it is ordinary■^hh God iu his difpeni'ations to his people, to knit thetwo together, with great majiifeftations of his inerey,to bring troubles, tempefts, and trials, as yc will findfrequently in the word. *2d Rtafon. A fecond reafon wherefore we would lookfor a ilorm, is, becaufe we are guiltyoftliefe fins, thatbring on ftorms on the church, and people of God. Wehave told you what ftorms came on lifael in the wil-demefs, after their coming out of Egypt; and we havetold you their fin that brought them on ; unftcdfaft-ftefs in the Lords covenant, murmuring againft God,tempting of God, diffideoee and unbelief; defpifingand loathing, of the precious manna, their rebelling a~gainft God, their corrupting of the worth ip and ordi¬nances of God, &c. See if we be not guilty of allthefe fins : have we not been unftedfaft in the covenantIs not the obligation thereof in great meafurc forgot¬ten ? and who has remembered to perform his vow un¬to the Lord, almoft in any tiling, either m the nation¬al, or fplemn league and covenant ? Are we not guil¬ty of lulling, and not fatisfied with the things that GatShath given us, but the heart is carried away with thelull of the eyes, the lull of the flelh and pride of life?Are we not guilty of repining againft God? Are w©hot guilty of defpifing and lothing the precious mannabf the gofpel? Are we not guilty of corrupting of dieordinances of God, and fpoiling of many of his preci¬ous truths? Andare there not many fpeaking of makinga captain to return again to Egypt, and to involve them-felves in the bondage of all thefe cormptions which havebeen formerly calt out, and engaged agaisft in the co¬venant ; and if for thefe things God brought florins onthem, how fhall v.re avoid theni.3d Reafon. A third thing that fays there is a ftorn*coming, is, becaufe thefe amongft whom he doth emi¬nently ittanifeft himfelf, he doth alfo eminently try themhe may bring forth their faith and patience. Wc( 19 )lave had trials, but none of us have refilled unto -bW Z.,,they, have been but freih water , trials . »the-, tn*:;.are not anfwerable to thefe eminent dbpeniatiprt err-joyed. We have’ but run with the -fbct-m -", ar.ijlJiave not yet contended with the horfe-nien, w: havenot yet fwimmed in the fwellings of Jordan, j&r,xii. 5. - ,4th Reafon. A fourth thing that fays tbat there isa ftorm coming, is, becaufe that there is amhng us a.huge multitude of hollow hearted tnenr joined in thecovenantwith treacherous hearts, the Lord hath broughtforth many of thefe already, but is like there will bemore vifible difcoveries, that will make men difown andf difavow the covenant of God-5th Reafon. Another thing that fays ye would look! for a ftorm, is, becaufe that is already begun : thewind of the Lord’s fan is beginning to blow; fevcral*who were eminent in the work of the Lord are itn-| priibned; feveral ambaftadors of the Lord’s hcufe[j caft out; and doth not this fay that there is a ftorra1 coming.6th Reafon. Laftly, This fays that ye would look1 for a ftorm, becaufe all the wicked, and thefe thati have been enemies to the people of God are already! lifting up the head ; and that is ay the prognoftic of a:j ftorm.life 2. The fecond ufe is, as we would look for a' ftorni, fo we would not ftumble at it when it comes■becaufe it is the work of our God, it is the ordinarypath rod that the Lord ufes to take or give in his dif-penfations to his church aud people, all of them wew ould beware of.Stumbling 1. The firft ftumbling of the chil-<#rcn of Ifrael that we read of, when ftorms were liketo rife, they ftumble fo far as to ipeak of quitting ofthe work of die Lord, and not marching on fur thetto take pofleflion of the promifed land: and theyfpeak of making a captain to return back_ again tt>( 10 )•E^ypt: we would fear that that {hall be the fture-blmg of many in thefe times, that they {hall take arefolution to quit all the work of God, and the work ofreformation, and be content to be carried back againto thefe corruptions from whence they were, by themercy of God, delivered. That is -a. moft dreadfulilumbling ; we warn you of it, and we b'cfeech you irithe name of the Lord to take heed to it.Stumbling 2. A fecond fort of that we would be¬ware of, is, the Humbling of Doeg the Edomite, 2 Samsttii. when a ftorm was like to arife upon the churchand people .of God, he Humbles fo far at thefe things,as he falls to be anaccufer of thefe that had been em¬ployed in the work of God, and walked in their inte¬grity, to accufe honeH holy David ; and from an ac-tufer came to be an open perfecutor of the pec,pie" of<Jod. We would take heed, that for currying of fa¬vour to ourfelves, we he not accufers of others : this isShe way of many in thefe nations, they know no otherway of cUrrying of favour to themfelves, but by becom¬ing accufers of the faints of God: look to: it,- for in awhile ye will turn open perfecutors :. when none wouldfall on the prieHs of the Lord, Doeg the Edomite,ere he loH the favour he had gotten, would fall onthem.Stumbling 3. A third fort of Humbling that Wewould beware of, is, the Humbling of Shebna,treaiurer or feribe, Ifaiah xxii. when Sennacherib■invaded Judah, though he pretended friendfliip, yet 1 ,he in fecret way complied with Sennacherib, and !fo far as in him ky fupplanted good king Herekiah, - ,rmd the people of God; we would take heed erf' ■that. . #Stumbling 4. Another fort of Humbling that wewould beware of, is, that Humbling of Demas, 2 Tim.iv. 10. who when a Horm arifes, he thought it meetto ihift- for himfelf, and embrace this pretent world. ,* Demas has forfaken us,’ fays Paul, ‘ having lovod ii )* this prefent world and is departed untoThefTaloraca.’'Look we pray you kt this place, to that that is *r,oikHkc to be your tjrrptatioii, viz. the luft of the thingsi of the world, if ye will prove ftedfaft in the caufe '.tfrat •| ye have ovraed, add therefore we-would ifudy t(} haveii our hearts loofe'd from thefe things that will make you! ftumble in a ftorrny day.'tumbling 5. Another fort of ihumbling .that w»would beware of, is, the humbling of Baruch, Jer,xlv. 3.: when he and Jeremiah were,like to be put todeath, for the'caufe that they were engaged unto, hefainted and was afraid ; ‘ Wo is me,’ Jays he, ‘.for the. * Lord has added grief to my forrow,- I fainted in myI * fighing,, and I find no reft.’ We would take heedthat we faint not, neither be of a fearful heart, owathe caulk of God, and intereft of Jefus Chrift. Yea, thatcarnal fear carries Peter lb far as to deny his Lord andMailer.; , Stumbling 6. We would beware ofthe Humbling of: Judas, who, wh*n he got the thing'he would have beenj;i at, by the following or jefus Chrift,■ he rcfolves to be*tray his Mafter. Look that difappointments in fol¬lowing the caufe of Chrift,make younot turn treacher¬ous unto it.And laftly, We would beware of the ftumbling ofj the men of Judah, Jer. xliv. Jeremiah would havehad them ftaying in the land of Judah, and they wouldnot, but would go down to the land of Egypt. Andthey tell him, ‘ It was better with us when we burnt. ‘ incenfe to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink-offerings unto her, for then had we plenty of victuals,* and were well, and faw no evil.’ We would takeheed tha.t nothing make us to call in queftion the caul®©f God that we have beeen engaged in.Ufe 3, A third ufe, if it be fo, that tempefts andftorms are like to blow, then we would be ear*fi*lprepare for then},( » ;A few things we would name, that we would lootto for preparing of us.1. We would ftudy to have our {hip as light of allunneceffary burdens, as v.'e can; I mean, all things ofa prefent world, all things beilde God, and our preci-xjus fouls; wu would have as little weight of thefethings on our fpirits as we may, for they will fink ourIhip in a ftorm.2. We would be careful to make friendlhip with Je-fus Chrift that bleffed pilot, that we may get him inthe fhip with us, for we are not able to fteer our ffiip inaftorm.3. We would be careful to keep a low fail, to haveour fpirits humble and low before the Lord, for thehumble foul is moft like to hold out, when the wandand ftorm blow.4. We would be careful to get the knowledge of thecaufe that we profefs ; for indeed a dark night is ill tofail in, when the wind blow*, and when there are quickfands before us.And LajUyy We would be careful to have ourfhip well ballafted with the faith and patience of thefaints.Ufe 4. We would confider what grounds of confola-tion wc {hall have for ftrengthening of our hearts, ifwe bide faft by the caufe of Jefus Chrift, for the bideingout of a ftorm, if ib be God be pleafed to bring it onWe might name many, only at this time take thelefew. The firft ground of encouragement, is, thatyou ha’ve a good caufe, I mean the caufe of God, andthe intereft of Jefus ChriTt, fpeak againft it who will,forfake it who will, reproach it who will, doubtlefs,good is the caufe, the caufe is worth the contending’ for, worth the fullering any thing that can come for2. Another thing to be a ground of comfort to us,as we have a good caufe fo we hare a good captainItco, Jefits Chrift tlie Lord, who is captam and pi incfejof lalvation, who was never put to the worfe, and who|iits at the right hand of the lather, and will reign there'kill he make all his enemies his FdotftooL3. Another thing to be a ground of confolatiftn to! us, is, as we have a good caufe, and a good Captain,Ifo we have good company too, all in whofe Hearts theifear of the Lord is in thefe three nations,yea more we,have all the faints that have lived fmee the beginning|of the world ; for all the caufe they hare owned andifuffered for, is one and the fame, though there be fun-(day branches of it; we have alfo our own experiences,,ind many things more of that kind. O that we knew:bur privileges, for ftrengthning of our hearts to be fiu-i:orc and ftedfaft in his work. And fo dole.f H 3Mr JAMES GUTHRIE Ss laf!E N and brethren, I fear many of you are comehither to gaxe, rather than to be edified by thecarriage and laft words of a dying man : but if anyhate an ear to hear, as I hope icfme of this great con¬fluence havt, . I defire your audience to a few words.I amcomehither to laydown this earthly tabernacle andmortal flefh of mine, and I blefs God, through hisgrace, I do it willingly and not by conftraint. I fay,I futfer willingly, if I had been fo minded, I mighthave mads a diverfion, and not been a prifoner ; butbeing confcious to myfelf of nothing worthy of death,«r of bonds, I would not ftain my innocency with theTlifpicion of guiltinefs, by withdrawing : neither have Iwanted opportunities and advantages to efcape fince Iwas a prifoner, not by the fault of my keepers, Godknoweth, but otlaerwife ; but neither for this had Ilighter liberty, left I fhould reflect: upon the Lord’sname,and offend the generation of the righteous; andif fome men have not been miftaken, or dealt deceit¬fully in telling me fo, I might have avoided not onlythe feverity of the fentence, but alfo had much favourand countenance, by complying with .the courfes of thetimes. But I durft not redeem my life with the lofs a£my integrity; God knoweth, I durft not; and thatfince I was a prifoner, he hath fo holden me by thehand, that he never fuffefed me to bring it in debatein my inward thoughts, much lefs to propone or hear-to any ©verturc of that, kind.. I did j udge it bettecSpeech upon the Scaffold, Juneill, i66'i.( »! )to differ, than to fin : and therefore, I sm epir.e tit*therto lay down iriy life this day, and I bids God, Idie not as a fool; not that I have any thing wbereirtto glory in myfelf: I acknowledge tltat I am a fmner,yea, one of the greateft and vildf that has O^med aprofetlion of religion, and one of the mod unworthy. that has preached the gofpel. My corruptions havebeen ftrong and many, and haVe made rite a Tinner inall things, yea, even in following my duty ; and there¬fore, righteoufnefs have I none of my own, all is vile.But I do believe ‘ that Jefus Chrift came into the world* to fave fmners, bf whom I am chief:’ through faithin his righteoufnefs and blood have I obtained mercy ;and through him, arid in hirti alone, have I the hopebf a bleffed conqueft over (in and fatan, and hell anddeath, arid that I (hall attain unto the refurredHon ofthe jufti and be made partaker of eternal life. * I‘ know in whom I have believed, and that he is able* to keep thrit which I have committed unto him a-* gainft that day.’ I have preached falvation throughhis name, ,and as I have preached,fo do I believe, anddo commend the riches of his free grace and faith inhis name untb you all, as the only way whereby yc canbe faved.And, as I blefs the Lord that I die not as a fool;fo alfo, that I die not for evil-doing. Not a few of youm^y haply judge that I fiiffer as a thief, or as a mur¬derer, or as an evil-doer; or as a bufy-body in othermens matters. It was the lot bf the Lord Jefus Chrifthimfelf, and hath bcert of many of his precious fervantsand people, to fuffer by the world as evil-doers ; andas my foul Icarcth hot at it, but defireth to rejoice inbeing brought into conformity with my bldled head,and lb bleffed a company, in this thing ; fo I defircandpray, that I may be to none of you to day, upon thisaccount, a ftone of Humbling, and a rock of offence.Bleffed is he that (hall not be offended at Jefus Chrift,and his poor fervants and 'members, bspaufe of their.■■( *« >feeing condemned ns evil-doers by the world. God r«my record, thnt in thefe things for which fentence ofdeath hath paffed againftjme, I have a good confcience.I blefs God, they are not matters of compliance withft claries, ordeligns, or practices, againft his majefty’sperfon or government, or the perfon and governmentof his royal father: my heart, I blefs God, is confciousto no diiloyaky, nay, loyal I have been, and I com¬mend it to you to-be Ipyal, and obedient in the Lord.True piety is the foundation of true loyalty : a wickedman may be a flatterer, and a time-ftrver, but he willnever be a loyal fubjed. But to return to my purpofe;the matters for which I am condemned, are mattersbelonging to m’y calling and funftion, as a minuter ofthe gofpel, fuch as the difeovery and reproving of fin,the preifing and the holding faft of the path of God inthe covenant, and preferring and carrying the workof religion and reformation according thereto, and de¬nying to acknowledge the civil magiftrate, as the pro¬per competent and immediate judge, in caufes ecclefi-aftical: that in all thefe things, which God fo orderingby his gracious providence, are the grounds of my in-diftment and death, I have a good confcience, as hav¬ing walked therein according to the light and rule ofGod’s word, and as did become a minifter of the gof-pel.I do alfo blefs the Lord, that I do not die as one not'efired. I know that by not a few, I neither hareoeen, nor am defired. It hath been my lot to havebeen a man of contention and forrow; but it is mycomfort, that for my own things I have not contended,but for ‘ the things of Jefus Chrift for what relatethto his i«tfreft and work, and the well-being of his peo¬ple. In order to the preferving and promoting of thefeX did proteft againft, and flood in oppofition to theft latea ffemblies at St Andrews, Dundee, and Edinburgh,and the public refolutions for bringing the malignantparty ieto the judicatories, and armies of this kingdom( 27 )conceiving the fame contrary to the word of God, andto our iolemn covenant engagements; andtobe an in¬let to the defe&ion, and to the ruin, and dcftnnSion ofthe work of God. And it is new manifeft to manyconfctences, that I have not been therein miftaken, ncrwas not fighting againft a man of ftraw. I was alfndefirous,jj and did ufe fome poor endeavours, to havethe church of God purged cfinfuflicient and feandale us,and corrupt minifters and elders; jfor thefe things Ihave been miftaken by fome and hated by others : butI blefs the Lord, as I had the teftimony of my owneonfcience, lo I was and am therein approven in theconsciences of many of the Lord’s precious fetvantsand people ; and however lb little I may die defired byfome, yet by thefe I know I do die deftred, and, theirapprobation and prayers, and affe&ion is of more va¬lue with me, than the contradiction, or reproach, orhatred of many others ; the love of the one, I cannotrecompcnce, and the miftake or hatred or reproach ofthe other, I do with all my heart forgive ; and where¬in I have offended any of them, I do beg their mercyand forgivenefs. I do from my foul wilh, that mydeath may be profitable unto both : that the one may¬be confirmed and eftablifhed in the ftraight ways of theLord ; and that the other, if the Lord fo will, may beconvinced, and ceafe from thefe things that are notgood, and do not edify but deftroy.One thing I would warn you of, that Godis wroth,yea, very wroth with Scotland, and threatneth to de¬part and remove his candleftick. The caufes of hiswrath are many, and would to God it were not onegreat caufe, that caufes of wrath are delpifed and re¬jected of men. Confider the caufe that is recorded Jer.jxxvi. and the confequence of it, and tremble and fear,I cannot but alfo fay, that there is a great addition andincreafe of wrath ; i. By that deluge of profanity thateverfloweth all the land, and hath reins Icofed unto itl every where, in fofar that many have loft pot only allliBfc iVu1 ~-•f**)ufe and ejercife of religion, but even of morality, andthat common civility that is to be found amongft theheathen, a, By that horrible treachery and perjury,that is in the m alter of the covenant, and caufeofGodand work of reformation : ‘ Be aftonlfhed, O ye hcav-‘ ens, at this, and be ye horribly afraid, and be yc vc** rydefolate, faith the Lord; for my people have com** mitted two great evils, they have forfaken me the* fountain'of-water-;, and have hewed them out ctf-* terns, broken cift'efns, that can hold no waterslhallThe break the covenant and profper ? ‘ Shall the throne* of iniquity have fellovvihip with God, which frameth* mifcjiief by a law ?’ I fear the Lord be about to brings fword on thole lands which lhall avenge the quarrelof his. covenant. 3. Horrible ingratitude, the Lordafter ten years opprellion, artd bondage, hath brokenthe yoke ofllr angers from off our necks : but what dowe render to him for this goodnefs ? Moft of the fruitof our delivery is, to work wickednefs, and to ftrength-en ourfelves to do evil, 4. A mod dreadful idolatry,and facrificing to the creature, we have ‘ changed the‘ glory of the incorruptible God, into the image, of cor-,* ruptible man,’ in whom many have placed sdmollall their falvation a,nd defiro, and have turned thatwhich might have been a blefling unto us, (being keptin a due line of fubordlnation under God) into oil idol 1of jealoufy, by preferring it before him* God is allb' twroth with a generation of carnal, corrupt, time ferv*ing miniffers ; I know, and bear tedimony, tliat in 1the church of Scotland, there is a true and faithful mi¬nidry : bldfed be God, we have yet many who ftudytheir duty, and defire to be found faithful to theirLordand Mailer ; and I pray you to honour, and reverenceand efleem niuch of thele for their works fake ; and Ipray them to be encouraged in their Lord and Mafter, ; •who is with them, to make them as iron pillars andBrazen walls, and as a ffreng defenced city in the faith- jivl lyllcwing cf their duty: but, ch! that there were( 29 )if)t too many, who mind e earthly things, and 4 areenemies to die crofs of Jefus Chrift,’ who puih with:he fide and Ihoulder, who make themfelves trahfgrel*s ors, by ftudying to build again what they did former-i y warrantably deftroy ; I mean prelacy, and the ce¬remonies and the fervice book, a myftery of iniquitythat works amongft us, whofe fteps lead unto the houfeiof the great whore Babylon, ‘ the mother of fomica-r tion or whofoever elfe he be that buildeth this je-ijricho again, let him take heed of the.curfe of Hicl, t!i«Bethelite, and of that flying roll threatned, Zeeh. v.j And let all minifters take heed that they watch, andbe ftedfaft in the faith, and quit thcmfclves like men,and be ftrong ; and give faithful and fcafcnable warn-l ing concerning fin and duty. Many of the Lords peo-j pie do fadly complain of the fiyjiting and lilence of ma-| ny watchmen, and it concerneth them to confider w hatI Cod calleth for at their hands in fuch a day : filenceij now in a watchman, when he is fo much called to fpeakI and give his teftimony, upon the peril of his life, itli; doubtlefs a great fin. The Lord open the mouths ofI his fervants, to fpeak his word with all boldnefs, thatl covenant breaking may bedifeoveredandreproved, andi that the kingdom of Jefus Chrift may not be fupplant-ij cd, nor the fouls of his people be deftroyed without a' witnefs. I have but a few words more to add; all thati| are profane amongft you, I exhort them to repentancefor the day of the Lord’s vengeance hafteneth, and isnear; but there is yet a door of mercy open for you, ifyou will not defpife the day of falvation. AH that aremaligners and reproachcrs, and perfecutors of godli-nels, and of fuch as live godly, take heed what ye do,it will be hard for you to kick againft the pricks; youmake yourlelves the butt of the Lord’s fury, and hi*flaming indignation, if you do notecafe from, and re¬pent of all your hard fpeechcs, and ungodly deedsAll that are neutral, and indifferent, and lukewarmprofefibrs be zealous and repent, kit the Lord 4 fpue:r 3° y* you out of his mouth.’ You that lament after th«Lord, and mourn for all the abominations that are iin this city, and in the land, and take plcafure in the itftones and duft of Zion, call not away your confidence,but be comforted and encouraged in the Lord ; he willyet appear to your joy: God hath notcaft away his peo- tpic, nor work in Britain and Ireland, I hope it lhallonce more revive by the power of his Spirit, and takeroot downward, and bear fruit upward, and of this Iam now confident. There is yet a holy feed and pre¬cious remnant, whom God will preferve, and bringforth ; but how long or dark our night may be, I do »not know, the Lcrd Ihorten it for tire lake of his chofen.In the mean while he yepatient, and lledfatl,unmove-* able*, always abounding in the work of the Lord,'and in love one to another ; beware offnareswhich areft rawed thick ; cleave to the covenant and work of re- rformation ; do not decline the crofs of Chrid; ‘ choofe* rather to fuffer affii&ion with the people of God, than4 to enjoy the pleafures of fin for a feafon,’ and ac-* count the reproach of Chrift greater riches, than all‘ the treafures of the world.’ Let my death grievenone of you, it will be both m re profitable and ad-vantagious both for me and for you, and for the churchof God, and for Chrift’s intereft and honour, than mylife could have been. I forgive all men the guilt of itand I defire you to do fo alfo: ‘ Pray for them thatper-* ficcute you, and fclefs them that curfe you; blcfs, I‘ fav, and curfe not.’ I die in the faith of the apofllo.and primitiye Chrillians, and protellant reformed chur¬ches, particularly of the church of Scotland, whereofX am a member and minifter. I do bear my witnefsand tcllimony to the do&rinc, worlhip, difeipline, andgovernment of the church of Scotland, by kirk-feffions-prelbyteries, fynods, and general afl'emblies; popery,and prelacy, and all the trumpery of fcrvice and cere¬monies, that wait upon them I do abhor. I do bearmy witnefs unto the national covenant of Scotland, andIIr s' J»lcmn league and covenant betwixt the three kingdonisif Scotland, England, and Ireland? thefe facred fo-:mn, public oaths of God, I believe can be loofed, nortifpenfed with, by no perfon, nor party, or power up-m earth ; but areftill binding upon thefe kingdoms, and11ill be for ever hereafter ; and are ratified and fealedijy the converfxon of many thoufand fouls, fmee ourJitering thereinto. I bear my witnefs to the protefta-ijon againfl the contraverted afiemblies, and the pub-I: refolution to the teftimonie's given againll the fec-iries, againft the courfe of backfliding and defedion, lat is now on foot in the land, and all the branchesid parts thereof, under whatfoever name or nation,i • a&ed by whatfoever party or perfon. And in^heft place, I bear my witnefs to the crofs of Jefus Chriftid that I never had caufe, nor have caufc this day toI pent, becaufe of any thing I have fuffered, or can nowffer for his name: I take God to record upon myul, I would not exchange this fcaffold with the palacelir mitre of the greateft prelate in Britain. Bleffed betod, who hath ftiewed mercy to fuch a wretch, andpath revealed his fon in me, and hath made me a mini-|er of the everlafting gofpel, and that he hath deignedI the midft of much contrldiftion, from Satan and thelorld, to feal my miniftry upon the hearts of not a fewJr his people, and efpecially in the ftation wherein Ilas laft, I mean the congregation and prefbytery ofStirling ; and I hope the Lord will vifit that congrc-iation andprelbytcry once more with faithful pallors.«lod forgive the poor empty man, that did there in-ifude upon my labours, and hath made a prey of ma-y poor fouls, and expofed others to reproach and op-reifion, and a femme of the word^of the Lord. Godirgive the mifleaders of that part of the poor people^ho temped them to reject their own pallor, and tojimit of intruders; and the Father of mercies pity thatoor milled people and the Lord vifit the congregationad prclbytery of Stirling once more with faithful paf-r ?' ' ' !?or* and grant that the work and penple of God m? jbe revived through all Britain, and over all *the \tvirkJefus Chrift is my light, and my life, my righteoufnelJTty (Irength, and my falvation, and all my defireihim, O him, I do with all my ftrcngth and foul conirnend unto you : * Blefled are they that are not offend [* cd in him: bleiled are they that truft in him. Bid* him, O my foul, from hefiCeforth, even for ever. Re* joicc, rejoice, all ye that love him, be patient, ami* rejoice in tribulation : bleiled are you, and blefli^* fhall you be for ever and eyer ; everkfting rlghteouf* nefs and eternal falvation is yours: all are yours, an<:*• ye are Chrill’s, and Chrift is God’s. Remember ith* O Lord with the favour thou beared to thy people* O vilk m : with thy falvation, that Imay feethe goo<?' of thychofen, that I may rejoice in the good oi th|« nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance;* iNow let thy fervant depart in peace, fmee mine eye** have feen thy falvation,’