T W T7T R Y A LO FRichard Francklin,F o r AMISDEMEANOUR,In Publifting a Falfe, Scandalous, and Sedi¬tious Extract ot a Private LETTERfrom the Hague) inferred in the Coun¬try Journal; or, the Craftsman,of Saturday, jfanuary 2, 1731. Try’d atthe Sittings 01 the Court of King's-Bench)Weftminfter, on Friday. December 3, 1731.before the Right Honourable RobertLord Raymond, Lord Chief J ultice ofthe faid Court.N. B. A great deal of Paws has been taken to renderthis Tryal as Full and Juft as poffible for whichPurpofe tfbree different People took Minutes of itin Court.EDINBURGH,Printed by Gavin Hamilton and Company, and>fold at the faid Gavin Hamilton's Shop, oppcfkc tothe Parliament Clofs, 1731*U M-• • : • , .. , . . ■'7; l. .. rr?. a . . . . ••C ? )theTryal of RichardFrancklin,&CC*Council for the King.Sir Philip York, Attor¬ney-General.Charles talbot, Efq;Solicitor-General,Mr. Reeves.Mr. Willes.Mr. Parker.Council for Mr. Franckli^Mr. Bootle, Sen.Mr. Noel.Mr. Fazakerlet-Mr. Strange.Mr. Taylor.Mr. Bootle, Jun.BR. Attorney-General fi.ft opened to the' Court, before the Jury were fworn, that,J as a fpecial Jury had been granted upon: his Motion, for the Trial of this Indict¬ment, now before the Court j and thatas only Eleven appeared out of the Pannel of Twen¬ty four, fummohed to attend the 12th of laft Julythe infifted, that thofe Eleven might, if they were pre-fent, and not challenged, be fworn, and a Talefma-nadded out of thofe that attended new; which wasagreed to; but feveral of the El ven that attendedbefore, not attending then, the Jury fworn were asfollows, ’viz.Zhomas Milner, of St. Andrew’s Hollorn, Efq;Thomas Andrews, of Ormond Street, Elq;* ctbomas Allen, of Finchley, Efq;f Jacob Harvey, of Iflmgton, Efq;A aHeur}/* JJenry Norris, oF Grove-Street, Efq*Thomas Moore, of Queen's-Square, Efq;* William Milliard, of Norton-Folgate, Efq; -* Philip Baker, of King Street, Efq;George Short, of Clerketwell, Efq;IfilUam Edwards, of Grofvenor-Street, Efq;William burner, of Ditto, Efq;* Henry Wingfield, of Hammerfmith, Efq;Jhbfe with this. Mark * were? thofe of the Elevenfworn the 12th of July laft.The Council for Mr. Francklin challeng’d HenryWingfield, Efq; and produced one Pool, who beingfworn, depofed. That he fummoned the faid HenryWingfield Efq; and that the faid Henry Wingfield atthat Time faid, that as for Mr- Pulteney, and thereft of them, he did not value them ; but for thatScoundrel Francklin, he would hang him if he could;upon which Account he was difmifled, and,* John Wilfon, of Wilfdon, Efq;who was next upon the Pannel, was fworn.| Then the Jury was agreed to, only Mr. Attorney-General made a fhort and juft Harangue, in Defence, of the Chara&er of Henry Wingfield, Efq;Mr. Parker open’d to the Court, on the Part ofthe King, the Heinoufnefs of the Crime, for whichMr. Franklin flood indifted ; as that the Extraft ofa pretended Letter from the Hague, inferred in the1 Country-Journal, or Craftfman of the 2d of Januaryj laft, was a falfe, fcandalous, and feditious Libel, re-j fle&ing on the Conduft of his Majefty and his Mini-y fters, and falfely reprefented the Lenity of his Ma-1 jefty’sgood Intentions in concluding the Treaty ofL Seville with their Cathotick and Chriftian Majefties,1 / Mr.Mr. Attorney-General fpoke next on the Part ofthe King, That nothing was requir’d, nor defir’d buca fair Determination of this Matter, between hisMajeftyand his Subjefts; and that if they prov’dthe Publication of the Country-Journal, or Craftfman,of the 2d of Januarym(m which was inferred antxtract ot a pretended private Letter from the Harue )on Mr. Franklin i he hop’d that the Jury would con-lider it, whether it was a Libel or not; as to its be¬ing a fcandalous and feditious Letter, was evident inhlrs,?P1‘llon> fr0m lts afperfmg the feveral Treatiesof his Majefty and his Allies, enter’d into by themto prevent the ill Confequences of the Treaty oi Vien¬na, concluded between the King ot Spam!^ the■ - ^Peror of Germany, fuch in particular, as the De-hvery of. Gibraltar and Fort-Mahon to the Kina ofSpain and a great Diminution of our Foreign Trade-that the faid pretended Extraft of a Letteffrom theHague, intimated, fthat the firm Union betweenFrance ^d Spam, would fi0Qn prove a Mfiondutl infme Mmtfiersi which he (in his Opinion ) believ’dcould mean none other than the Minifters of Great-Bntain, whether of Sea or Land he could not tell ,butit anfwerd to the Information now againft Mr.‘ |Franklin, as meaning tome Minifters J. Mt.JttmwyGeveraltookNotice'ofm AamaJc;in the Third Year ot the Re,gn of Edward I. whichprovided for the Pumthment of fcandalous and fedi- 'lions Libels ; and the Publifters of falfe News. Andof another Aa made in the Reign of He,,. VII 1PT nd 1° of the a4,h offyf'. J?1*, which was allow'd as a Libel againft Jhis Majefty, tho he was not direaiy mention’dHe then concluded with telling the Court and the !Jury, that nothing was requir’d of them, but a fairdefinition of the Matter m Difpure, as they on them ,Oath^i.Oaths nuiftdo; that he hop’d that they would notfhut their Eyes againft the Light, but fee as everycommon Reader in a Coffee-Houfe does.Mr. Solicitor-General next {poke on the Part of theKing, with feveral of the fame Circumftances, thathad been before mentioned by Mr. Attorney-General;and added feveral learned Arguments againft Libelsin general; particularly, the ill Confequence that at¬tends a frequent Oppofition of his Majtfty’s Mea-fures, as no Treaty could be made without his Con-fent ; and mat the faid Extra# o{ the Hague Letter,refkding on the Minifter’s Conduct, muft of Confe¬quence be a falfe, fcandalous and feditious Libel.He next took Notice of the Inrormation, on whichthey were then trying Mr. Francklin, wherein he wasrepresented as a feditious Perfon, and a Publilher offalfe News; and concluded, that as he prov’d theFact on the Defendant, he hop’d they would give aVerdi# againft him.Then the Council for the King proceeded to callthe following Evidence to fupport the Charge.Mr. Jenkins being fworn, produced a Letter, fentfrom abroad, which being read in Court, mademention of feveral of his Majefty’s Allies being dif-gufted at the ^xtraft of a private Letter from theHague, inferred in the Qraftfman of January laft,which was taken Notice of by the King’s Council,to be the fame on w’hich the Information was laidagamft Mr. Francklin. Here the Letter was read inCourt.George ifilfen, Efq; Under Secretary of State, wascall’d, who being fworn, produced a Letter fent fromthe Secretary of State to his Catholick Majefty, tothe Right Honourable the Lord Vifcount 2“mnjbend,one of his late Majefty’s Principal Secretaries of State,in tfte Year 1725, in which n formal Demand wasmademade of Gibraltar and Port-Mahon, in Purfuance, asthe Spanijh Secretary faid, of the then late Treatyconcluded between his Mailer and the Emperor ofGermany, at the Court of Vienna. Mr. tfilfon wasask’d, how he came by that Letter ? To which heanfwer’d, amongft other Difpatches from his Maje-fty’s Minifter at the Court of Madrid, brought bya Courier.Mr. Blare was next call’d upon, and fworn, whodepofed. That he had tranflated the faid Letter, whichcontained a Demand of the Reflitution of Gibraltarand Port-Mahon; and had likewife tranflated the Ar¬ticles of the Treaty of Vienna. Then the Tranfla-tipns were read in Court, which he farther depofedwere a juft and true Tranflation from the SpanijhOriginals.Here Mr. Solicitor-General took Notice, That theTreaty of concluded in the Year 1725, be¬tween the Emperor and the King of Spain, was veryprejudicial to his Majefty’s Subjects; upon which hisMajefty’s Minifters (with his Majefty’s Confent)concluding a Treaty of Peace, Union and Friendlhipwith the Kings of Spain and France, in order toqualh the ill Confequences that muft have attendedthe laid Treaty of Vienna, had it not been timelydjfappointed by the Conclufion of the SevilleTreaty, which Mr. Franklin had in his Journal ofthe 2d of January laft, ridiculed falfely and fcanda-loufly, in a pretended Extraft of a private Letter fromthe Hague.The Council for the King then propos’d to enterinto a Proof of the Publication of the Craftfman ofthe 2d of January laft on Mr. Francklin, for whichPurpofe they call’d one Smith, who being fwom, de¬pos’d,That he went to the Houfe of Richard Franck-- 1im, and ask’d for fix Country-Journals or Craftsmen,A 4 o£ ,V O fot the 2d of Jamary laft, and two of the Saturdaybefore, which Mr. Francklin order’d his Servant toferve him with, and ic was done accordingly, and hegave them'Half-a-Crown, and had a Shilling givenhim as Change , he farther depos’d, that Mr.Fra»c£-lin ask’d him if he fold them again, and that he toldhim he did.Here was a palpable Variation, either from theTruth, or an Overfight of the Council for the De¬fendant, for eight Journals to a Man that fells themagain, comes to but 1 s. and if he had not boughtthem for*Sale, he muft then have paid but fixteen-pence for them.This Evidence, Smith, farther depos’d, That hefold one of the fix Journals which he had bought asabovemention’d, to one John Ibbot, at the Six-CannsAiehoufe in Holbourn j and a Journal being produced,he was interrogated whether that was it; to whichhe reply'd, it was.The Council for the Defendant ask’d him, how heknew it to be one of the fix he had bought at Mr.firanckhn’s, and whether or no he had mark’d it ?to which he faid, he had mark’d it, and was fure itwas one of the fix.John Ibbot depofed, That he bought one of the(aid Journals of the aforefaid Evidence, Smith, at theSix Canns in Holbourn. That he likewife had boughtanother of the faid Journals of one Mrs. Dewel,who gave it him from behind the Compter of Mrs.Dodd, at the Peacock without temple Bar. He wasasked by Mr. Fazakerly, one of the Council for .Mr. Francklin, it he had marked the very individualPap-r bought of Mrs. De-zvel ? and if he was furethat the Extraft of a private Letter from the Hague,which Mr. Francklin was then trying for, was inferr¬ed in that Craftfman he had bought ? To which hean-ahlwered, Yes, he did mark it, and was fare thatwas the very lame Paper.Mrs. Dodd, being call’d, and fworn, depos’d,Thatfhe ufed about 60 Quires per Week of the Craftfmen;but did not at firft come to any Particulars relatingto the Craftfman of the 2d ot January laft; whereup¬on Mr. Attorney-General ask’d her who (he paid hecMoney to for thefe Papers of the Country Journal, otthe Craftfman ? To which fhe faid, Mr. Francklin,or fomebody by his Order. She was then ask’d, iffhe had thofe Journals weekly from Mr. Francklin’siwhich Queftion fhe anfwer’d as follows, viz That aServant of her’s always fetch’d them for her, and thatfhe believ’d they came from Mr. Francklin's.Henry Boram, Servant to Mrs. Dodd, depos’d.That he fetches the Journals ot the Craftfman everyWeek for his Miftrefs. He was then ask’d whatTime of the Week ? To which he faid on FridayNights, and that he had them from Mr. Francklmysin Covent-Garden. He was ask’d it he remember’dfetching the Craftfman, or the Country-Journal of the2d of January laft ? At which he made fome fmallHefitation, as not being certain. Then the Attorney-General ask’d him, if he remember’d the laft New-Year’s-Day, and on what Day in the Week it fellout on ? To whith he faid, on a Friday : Then faidthe Attorney-General, do you remember fetching theCraftfman that Night, which were publifh’d the nextDay ? (which were certainly thofe bearing Date the2d of laft January, for which Mr. Francklin wastrying) Yes, reply’d this Deponent, I do. Then a-nother Queftion was asked him, whether he everfetched any Craftfmen from any where elfe but Mr.Francklin’s, and how long he had fetch’d them forMrs. Dodd in that manner! To which he faid, heJiad liv’d with Mrs. Dodd about a Year and an Half,and. ( to-)«nd that during that Time, he had never mifs’d fctch-ing the Craftfmen ; and that he never had them fromany where elfe but Mr. Francklirfs in Covent-Garden.The former Evidence, Smith, was re-called intoCourt,and being examin’d as to another of the Craftf-men of the id of January laft, which was produc’d,depos’d, That he bought that of a Servant Girl be¬longing to one Mrs. Smith at the Royal-Exchange,and that he knew it by a Mark he had put upon it.yixs.Smith^do was called by the Name ol Pierce,came into Court, and being fworn, depos’d. That Iheafed every Week between 40 and 50 Quires o£ theCraftfman, which Ihe had of Mr. Francklin. Shewas then ask’d, to whom fhe paid tor thofe Craftf-men ? She faid, flie had a Man named David Davisthat always fetch’d them for her, and that Ihe gavehim the Money, which was 7 /. every Week, andthat he paid it to Mr. Francklin or his Wife, or fomeof Mr. Francklin’s Servants. Mr. Bootle, one of theCouncil for Mr. Francklin. ask’d this Deponent iffee could be pofitive that fee paid her Money for theCraftfman’s Journal of the ad of January laft ? Towhich fee reply’d, fee did not remember it in parti-polar, for about that Time fee was married i whichExpreffion caufed fome laughing in the Court. Shewas then ask’d, if fee could take upon her to fay thatfee did not pay for that very Day’s Craftfman of thead of January laft ? At which fee was feemingly ina Paffion, and told Mr. Francklinys Council, Thatfee would not fatisfy them; whereupon the Judge re¬primanded her, and directed her to give her Anfwer,which fee did, and faid, That fee believ’d fee paidthe Money tor the Craftfmau of that Day, as well asaft others.. David Davis depos’d, That he was employ’d byMrs. Smith to fetch in her Journals on Friday Nights jthatthat he always fetch’d the Country-Journal, or Craftf-man, among the reft. He was then ask’d where,and of whom he had them ? Which Queftion he an-fwer’d as thus ; that he had them from the Houfe ofMr. Francklin in Covent-Garden. He was alfo ask’d,if he paid for thofe Journals call’d the Craftfman%and to whom ? To which he anfwered, That he al¬ways paid about 7 /. a Week for them ; and tnoftcommonly to Mr. Franklin’s Wife. He was thenask’d, If he was pofitive that he paid for that Day’sJournal of the 2d of January; to which he faid, hebeliev’d he did.Stbomas Lunnis, Affiftant to Mr. Paine, Regiftecof Pamphlets, at the Stamp-Office, depofed, Thathe regilt.r’d the Advertifements inferted in the Co«»-try-Journal, or the Craftfman of Saturday 2d ofJanuary laft, (which was the Day when the pretend¬ed Extrad of the Hague Letter was publifhed) thatthere were thirty eight of them, and that he fent thePerlon, who came to Regiftcr them, with a regularNote for the fame, to the Receiver-General’s Office.He was then asked. Who it was that came to Regi-fter them, and in whofe Name it was done ? Towhich he anfwered. That it was a Servant of Mr*Franklin’s, and that they were regiftered in the Nameof Richard Franklin. The Defendant’s Council ask¬ed him. How he came to remember the Day ?Whereupon he produced the Regifter-Book, whichcorroborated his former Depofition.Mr. Webb was called, and fworn, who depofed.That Mr. Franklin’s Servant came to him, from theRegifter’s-Office, with thirty eight Shillings, beingthe Duty to the King, for thirty eight Advertife-xnents, by an Ad of Parliament, and that he knewit was for the Country-Journal, or the Craftfman ofthe ad of January laft by his Books, which he pro->duccdfiduced ; and^theh faid. That he fent the fame to theComptroller’s-OtHce to be comptrolled.Mr. Scot, Accomptant to the Stamp-Office, be-,ing call’d and fworn, depos’d, in order to prove theNumber that were publilh’d of thofe Craftfmen above-mentioned, that he had received ten Pounds eighteenShillings for the Duty thereof. The Council for theDefendant asked him. Whether he received the Mo¬ney from Mr. Franklin ? He anfwcr’d. No. Thenthey asked him, who he did receive it from? Hereply’d, from a Servant of Mr. Franklin , for that {ichimfelf feldom paid any Money, but that the Receiptwas given for Mr. Franklm's Ufe.There were feveral other Evidences call’d, particu¬larly Mr. Snow, Mr. Payne, and Mr. Pbeafant ■, butjuft as they began to examine Mr. Pbeafant, whowas the firft in Court, the Council for his Majeftyagreed to reft their Proof upon what Evidence hadbeen already produced, and which we have takenNotice of in a fair and candid Manner.Now the Council for the Defendant began to maketheir Defence, which was done in the Manner fol¬lowing.Mr. Fazakerley firft open’d to theCourt,on the Partof the Defendant, That tho’ the Council for the Kinghad fpent the beft Part of two Hours, endeavouring toprove, that the Country-Journal, or Craftfman, men¬tioned in the Information, was a falfe, fcandalous andfeditious Libel, yet it very evidently, in his Opinion,was not fo; for that he look’d upon the Letter fromthe Hague, which they call the Libel, to be no other,than an Account from one of Mr. Franklin's fo¬reign Correfpondencc, and therefore came to him in¬nocently.The Council for the King demanded of him toprove, that Mr. Franklin had the aforefaid Letter fenc* J ' him,him from the Hague; upon which he order’d one tfbo-mas Kawlins to be call’d.He appearing in Court, and being fworn, the Coun¬cil for the Defendant ask’d him, whether he was pre-fent when Mr. Franklin was taken into Cuftody ?He anfwered. He was. Then they asked him, howhe came to be prefent ? He reply’d, He was call’dupon to aflift in the apprehending of him.Then the Council for the Defendant demanded ofhim to give an Account to the Court what pafs’d atMr. Francklin’s. He anfwer’d, That when he, withfomc of his Majefty’s MelTengers,came to Wlt-Franck-lin’s, they prefently fecured him, and fearched hisPockets, and took all his Papers, and all that theycould find in the Houfe. The Council asked him,whether he faw ever a Letter among the Papers thatwas taken from him ? He anfwer’d, that he believ’dthere might be feveral.Mr. Bootle was the next Council for Mr. Franck-hn, who faid many Things in Defence of the Libertyof the Preis, and in particular of that of the Subject;and made a very learned Harrangue on the Dofirineof Libels on Miniflers, fuch as that nothing couldbe call’d a Libel, unlefs it was direftly to the De¬faming fome particular Perfons, which he could notperceive the Letter from the Hague did, and confe-quently till fuch Times that the Perfon or Perfons forefle&ed on fhall be prov’d, he could not think theEvidence given, of any Force.The Council for the King reply’d. That tho* noparticular Minifter was mention’d in the Hague Let- |ter; yet, that fome of his Majefty’s Minifters, were |meant thereby was evident, and it was no Matter Jwho, for that it was the King’s Caufe . that was try- J |ing, for the Afperfion of fome of his Minifters; and;C 14 )they did not doubt but that the Gentlemen of thdJury was fatisfied with the Evidence that was given.Mr. Noel, took Notice to the Court, and to theJury, That the Publick requiring a true and exa&Account of what happens Abroad in Foreign Parts,as well as at Home, and the Craftfman, mentionedin the Information, did no other, therefore he couldnot perceive what Detriment fuch a Relation couldbe. And that, if the Prefs was debarred from giv¬ing the People fuch Intelligences, as occurred to themfrom Abroad, the People would be deprived of theirgreateft Happincfs ; and that though the Council forthe King, thought fic to find fome falfe, fcandalous,and feditious Afperfions, againft fome of his Maje¬lly’s Minifters, in the aforementioned Craftfman ofthe 2d of January laft, yet he could not find anyfuth ; nor did he believe but that all of his Ma jelly’sMinifters were Men of Honour and Integrity, andhe hoped that every Body prefent, particularly, theGentlemen of the Jury, was of the fame Opinion ;and, confequently, if they were fuch, thofe fcanda-loUs and feditious Reflections could never affeCbthem, as nor deferving any fuch Afperfion ; there¬fore he hoped the Gentlemen of the Jury would give•VerdiCt accordingly.The others of the Council for the Defendant, fpoketo the fame EffeCt ,• particularly Mr. Strange, whoargued upon the Incoherence of the Matter in Dif-pute, with the feyeral Treaties, which the Councilfor the King had caufed to be read in Court, in or¬der to tfie proving the faid Hague Letter to be a falfeLibel.He further argued, That it could be no Libel, forthat he could prove by Evidence, rhe Fads thereinmentioned j but the Council for the King raifing aPif-Dilpute concerning what Libels were, that Point wasdropp'd.Here the Council for the King acquainted theCourt that the Hague Letter, mentioned in the Craftf-man of the ad of January laft, was, and could be noother than a falfe, fcandalous and feditious Libel; forthat it very plainly byInuendo's,endeavour’d to fnbvettthe Minds of his Majefty's Subje&s, and maliciouflyafperfe the Conduct and Adminiftration of hisMajeftyand hisPrincipal Minifters. And that tho’ the Councilfor theDefendant had made a fmartDefence for the Li¬berty of the Prefs; yet they could not be perfwadedthat the Abufing of his Majefty and his chief Mini¬fters, and the fpreading of falfe News, any ways be¬long'd to that Liberty, and that it was no Part ofthe Printer’s Trade to fcandalize whom they pleas’d;but that upon fuch Defaults they have always beenpunifli’d according to the Nature of the Offence.The Witneffes being examin’d, and the Council onboth fides having gone thro’ their Briefs, his Lordfhipproceeded to give his Charge to the Jury. Which hedid in a concife, pathetick, and juft Manner; firftbeginning with fummoning up the feveral Depofitionsof the Evidences, and then fhew’d them, that theCouncil for the King had plainly, and pofitively pro¬ved the Publication of the faid pretended ExtraSfrom the Hague Letter upon the Defendant, and thathis Council had produced no Evidence to the contra¬ry ; but had only prevaricated, pretending that theycould prove the Aflertions in the faid Letter to betrue, yet never produced one Evidence to that Effed.His Lordfhip likewife obferved to the Jury, that theCouncil for the Defendant had only produced oneEvidence, viz. A Conftablc, who had depos’d. Thatthe Meflengers, when they fecured Mr. Franklin,^arched his Pockety and took all the Papers from him.they could find; which was nothing to the Matterthen before them; for that they were only to confi-jder whether the Letter, for which Mr. Franklin wasIndicted, was a Libel or not, as laid in the Informaltion.His Lordfhip then read Part of the faid Letter#and acquainted the Jury, That in his Opinion, it ve¬ry plainly refilled upon fome Minifters, but whothofe Minifters were, he was at a lofs to know; andthat the Council for the Defendant, had not fo muchas hinted at them ; but that he fhould be very proudif they would inform him.Then his Lordfhip enter'd into the Nature of theThing, that if the Jury was of Opinion that it wasa Libel, then he hop’d they would , cpnfider too ofwhat Nature it was, that it tended to-, breed and fo¬ment Difquiets and Difturbancesi between his Ma-jefty and his Allies ; but more pjrtifftlarly^ betweenhis Majefty and his Subjeds. . /Moreover his Lordfhip told the Jury, .Th^ i( In-;fults and Refle&ions, up n his Maj'efty and his.Mipir?1 fters, were paftby unpunifh’d, how could theya|an4.every other Perfon, expedt to haee Redrefs ?fore it was a Matter of the greateft Confequence thaC,they had in Confidcration, and that the Pnblick.Tr^n^)quility depended upon their Determination j and#that if they thought the Extra# of the Hague Letterto be a Libel, or whether it is not, is the only Dif-;pure they had to decide; and if they believed it to,be a Libel, he doubted not but they would bring in| the Verdi# accordingly.|i The Jury retir’d into the Lord Chancellor’s Cham-| ber, and after being locked up about half an Hour, re-f turn’d and brought in their Verdi# Guilty.F 1 N I &