DREAMER’S DICTIONARYOBPUTURE REYEALER,FOUND IN THE ARK OFA LATE CELEBRATED WIZARD.GLASGOW:'Minted for the booksellers.* V OF SCOTLAND.etire .•>• »'HO. ,;«JA:[T2't ajWTUigo ®.t-a anr»irt OKtoxQZ tAr^JO 3TAJ h■ .i'^,M; Al» • »• iV* 4 ». -=...■ •. '.a\ ' v\ t- /., • Ji*' ’ ir \** * iVIW:~~ '2r&n* • :W^D8AJO.easrj^aaooa stfit fcom aaima|1\■ orriKJ « *'«■hTTHE DEEAMER’S DICTIONARY..1A-bed. To dream that you are in bed betoken*j good health, but, beware! for some one wishes toI injure you. ’ stno* -iJo vdAbuse. To dream that you are abused or insultedi is a sure sign that you will have a dispute with somej person. 'io inaeih 41 .wWtvb.Abroad. If you dream that you are in a foreign: country, some one who is making money abroad is(likely to bequeath a fortune to you-jjj.'uj , vloiilAcquaintance. To dream you fight with any per-i son is a sign of strife from a secret enemy. ?1 . 4itar. To dream that you are at the altar be-. tokens joy and gladness; if at the Hymeneal altar,I your marriage will be deferred.Angels. To dream of angels is a sign that someii one is near you—the remaining part of your dream'i will prove true, be therefore mindful of it; if youQ are in love, nothing can be more favourable, and yourundertakings will prosper. Qoy’HAnger. To dream that you are angry with any oneil denotes that you have many enemies, and that some) evil design is formed against your happiness; if you•.are in love, some rival is slandering you to yoursweetheart; if with your spouse, disgrace threatens: you. If you dream of another person in a passioni with you, it is more favourable, but betokens some: iunpleasant misfortune is about to happen to you; if: you are angry with your sweetheart, he will fall sick,-,and you will experience loss.Anxiety. To dream that you. are anxious to accom-. pllsh any project denotes that you would soon t»*eTHE DREAUEB S MCTMHABV.of it ; to think jour mind is anxious or uneasj i'a Sign soma one wishes to do you a favour.Ants. To dream of snts signifies a covetous mind :to see ants busy, foretells that your industry will bcrowned with success ; if they appear to be devoure>#by other animals, some secret enemy is trying tTran you; if you are sick when you dfeam of antsyour recovery will be slow, but certain.Apples. To dream of seeing apples, and they artipe and sweet, is a sure feign of prosperity; if the;are sour, it signifies that sorrow and unhappiness ar«likely to befall you.Arms. To dream that your arms are weak shew,that your health or fortune will decline ; if they ap¬pear to be strong, you will meet with unexpectecprosperity; if your arms are broken, you will losesome dear friend; if your right arm is brokenyou will lose a near male relation ; if the left, rfemale.Ass. To dream that you are riding on an ass Big-]nifies that you will be guilty of some foolish action 5if you see him feeding, your servants will be faithful;if you are driving him, you will be freed from trouble;if he runs after you, some wag will occasion a laughagainst you; if he appears loaded, your fortune will!advance:'0^ -nBade. If you dream that your back is broken, youwill meet with some loss ; if it grows stronger, youwill receive an unexpected addition to your fortune;to dream of the back bone indicates long life atidhappiness in your children.Bathing. To dream that you are bathing in thetea, and no men in tUf water, signifies that you wills* nooa Lkew noY Tmft eoteneKTBE DREAMER'S DICTIONATtr.Ifnever be married; but if you are in company witbone of the lords of the creation, you will soon bmarried and live happily ; if, however, you are infresh water, your lover will deceive you.i; Battle. If you dream you see a battle, beware olsecret enemies, who will endeavour to hurt you; ifyou are in love your sweetheart is false.Beef. To dream of beef denotes the death of afriend or relation,—in love it denotes disappoint¬ment.Beet. To dream you see bees at work signifiesthat your industry will be successful; if they areflying about, bad reports will be spread of you; ifthey sting you, you will suffer loss either of youri: goods or reputation.Birds. To dream you hear birds singing is a signof happiness; if you are married, something willhappen much to the advantage of your family; itis a sign of great success in business ; to see themfly denotes you will soon go a long journey, whichwill be pleasant and prosperous; to dream you catchthem, signifies some unexpected good fortune; ifthey are beautiful, the success will be the greater;to dream you find an empty nest denotes losses andgreat uneasiness.Bread. To dream you see a quantity of bread de¬notes great success in life; to dream of eating bread,denotes many friends who will do you kindness.Bridge. To dream you are going over a bridgeand meet with no interruption, you will go throughlife in a prosperous manner; if any thing impedesyou, you will meet with many obstacles in the world.JiruikiHg. If you dream that you are brushing_j|; M .tUkKOlTOVX i ,0 THE DREAMERS DICTIONART.J1 dusty clothes, it is a sign that a serious illness \vil!overtake you 5 but if you see another brushing them,it betokens prosperity in life. u ' nanBuried Alive. If you dream you are buried alive,it shews you are in danger of being unhappy andunfortunate during.your life. •: « t*; .cona Ui09«Candle. To dream that you see a candle burningdenotes that your lover is jealous; but if it is notburning, your sweetheart adores you.Cards. To dream you are playing at cards denotesthat you will soon be in love, if you ate not so al-0 ready; if you hold a gteht many court cards, youwill soon be married and happy. 1 rlnc tTCats. To dream of cats denotes much disappoint¬ment to a lover—your sweetheart is unfaithful; ifyou have servants, they will rob you; a cat mOans alurking enemy.ji Children. To dream you have children is a signthat you will be happy in your family; if one ormore of them die, you will meet with some misfor-{acHihrCherries. To dream of chenries betokens disap¬pointments in life, vexations in marriage, falsehoodin love, and deceitful pleasure; but if you felimbthe tree, a sure, speedy, and unexpected advance¬ment in life is certain do happen to you. ovui.Coach. To dream of riding in a coach denotes thatyou will love idleness, and are given to pride; todream of coming out of a coach signifies that dis¬grace threatens you, and great caution is neces-^oboqrai gnuff li ; mimam etroieqsotq a ai oil!To dream you see a comet is ominous offamine, and death; to the lover it fore-8- >3 i ' ‘1 .* i 7111 amTttX DKEAMER'S DICTION ART. 7' 1 r t- oT.fTTr vrtDV i!r Hi IliiA Xlflffl< fcodes an entire frustration of his hopes; to thejfermer, failure of crops; and to the seaman, stormsand shipwreck. . , Wionc ees]>1; Corn. To dream you are gathering ripe com de-; totes success in your enterprise; but if it is blightedibr mildewed, you will be a great loser^. . D0^Corns. To dreaih that you have corns on yourllittle toes, and that you experience great pain inI walking, denotes that you will have to travel muchi before you are permanently employed, but if theyI don’t hurt you, your lover intends to accompany youton a pleasure excursion; if you are married, the firsttis a sign that you will have twin-brothers; if theI second, a law-suit about a little piece of house-pro-tes* W-Ht -dt Mob to mesib 'oTCurrants. To dream of black currants denotes'great happiness in the married state; if you dream1 you are pulling them, it is certain you will have ait large family, who will all do well: but if the cur-:* rants are red, beware of false friends, those whomi| you little expect, for they will do you ham if they■; possibly can. rDancing. To dream you are dancing at a ball:! foretells you will soon receive some news from along absent friend; to the sailor, a successful voyage;il to married persons, increase of children; to thoseli in trade, much business; and to young people, ail happy marriage.Darkness. To dream you are in the dark is ai i token of affliction, and loss in trade ; to get put ofli darkness into light, is a sign of rising to eminence,I’ ir of escaping out of difficulties.Death. To dream you are dead denotes a speedyf 8marriage and success in all your undertakings; itli6 married, it promises young children, who vBie dutiful and give great comfort; to dream ysee another person dead, denotes ill usage fixfriends; if you are in love, your sweetheart iwprove false ; if you are in trade, ^harpers will tayou in; if a fanner, you will lose money by horst >and be waylaid as you return from market.Debt. To dream you are in debt and pursm •fcy officers, denotes that you will fall into some mexpected difficulties, or great danger.Devil. To dream you see the devil without feaforetells you will get the better of your adversaryif you are frightened, you will be under somdanger.Dogs. To dream of dogs that belong to us signifieisuccess in our pursuits ; but if we dream of thosbelonging to others, dangerous enemies.Drunk. If you dream of being intoxicated, it i|lure that some one is slandering you, but a sincerufriend, by his interference, destroys their inveterat.Jmalice.Eagle. To dream of seeing an eagle soaring highis a good omen to those who have great undertaking^on hand; but to dream that an eagle alights upoo;us, signifies mischance.Ealing. To dream you are eating denotes profit}and success in your present enterprise; a loathing;of victuals is a sign of disunion in your family.JErrand. To dream that you are running an er¬rand, and that one of your shoes comes off, is a signthat you will lose a sincere friend; if you succeedid accomplishing jour message without any accident,^ ' a ' ’ ' - ,,)Iflfi MtSAiiEfc’s DICTIONARY, *#then there is the greatest prosperity in store for yon,so lose no opportunity of la-vrfully bettering your con¬dition in life.Fever. To dream you are in a ferer betokens longgood health ; if you hare a leg amputated, you are'labout to get a partner -with money; if you are mar¬ried, it is the loss of one you fondly lore.Fields. To dream you are in green fields is a veryIfarourable sign; in lore, it denotes success andibappiness; to the tradesman, success and riches;’rand to the farmer, plenty; if you are soliciting aIfavour, it portends you •mil obtain it.Fighting. To dream you are fighting denotes much'opposition to your mshes, v. ith loss of character.Fire. To dream of fire denotes health and happi¬ness ; to the lover, marriage with the object 'of their(affections, and many children ; also that you will beisngry with some one for a trifle. To dream of^burning lights portends dreadful accidents to the^dreamer. If a sick person sees a fire extinguished,dt is a presage of death. If a person on board aliship dreams he sees a light a great way off, it be-ctokens a fair wind and a safe arrival. TO dream:!of seeing lighted torches and branches of fire de-oscending from heaven, signifies quarrelling, disap-:pointment, and adversities. To dream you se© a;fire sparkling denotes hasty news and anger; to■ dream of seeing houses on fire, denotes some un-! pleasant news will soon arrive; to dream you arenin the midst of a fire, and feel pain from it, pre-iisages envy and displeasure. To dream that you: hold a lighted torch in your hand, shews you willi gain honour and respect from all persons. To dream10 THE DEKAMER's DICTIONARY,that yon kindle a £rc without much trouble, and itImrns directly,, shews that your children will befortunate; but if you kindle a fire with much trouble,and it is extinguished presently, shews dishonour,especially to women. To dream you see a ship onfire at sefi, denotes great losses in business.Fishing. To dream you are fishing is a sign ofsorrow and trouble; if you catch any fish, you willbe successful in love and business ; if they slip outof your hand after you. have caught them, it is asign some pretended friend will deceive yon.Flowers. To dream you are gathering flowers is avery favourable omen, and is a sign you will thrivein every thing you undertake; that you will besuccessful in love, marry happily, and have beautifulchildren. xltivr oaBnj ■ at-m-.ftruit. Almonds indicate difficulties, loss of liberty,and deceit in love.Fortune. To dream you t»ake a sudflen fortunea bad omen; to the tradesman, it forebodes lossesin trade, quarrelling with his creditors, and loss ofliberty. .a -id-sjl n esoa oil smBoib 'ihtdFuneral. To dream you are busily employed inburying a person denotes a very speedy marriage,and that, ere long, you will hear of the death or im¬prisonment of some near relation or esteemed friend.Garden. To dream you are walking in a gardendemotes your advancement to fortune; if you aregathering the produce of it, you will be happy inmmriage, and have, a large family; it betokens greatsuccess to the lover, and increase of business to the.tradesman. ,9je roy r; 'r . ' v > -):,Geese. To dream of geese is a sign of good; yo**TtJfc DRfeAMfift’s DimOXARY. llKay expect to see an absent friend soon; to thedreamer, they denote success and riches,Gifts. To dream you have anything given to youis a sign that some good Is about to happen to you.Glass. To dream of glass denotes bad success iavarious undertakings; if you break it, it warns youof some unforeseen misfortune, the death of yourwife, or husband, or children.Gold. If you dream of gbld, it is a very goodomen; it denotes success in your present undertak¬ings after encountering numerous difficulties.• Gooseberries. If you dream of gooseberries grow¬ing on the bush, they denote that you will havea numerous family, and great success in your pre-•ent undertakings; but if they are baked, greattrouble is near at hand, so prepare for a sick-bed.Grapes. To dream of white grapes betokens fe¬licity in marriage, and success in trade; but if theyare purple, it denotes great misery in the matrimonialstate; to the tradesman, great distress and loss o£business. ,Grave. To dream of being buried is a sign youshall die very poor.Guns. To dream you see or hear guns firing fore¬tells much misery; if you fire them, you will have aquarrel; if they are discharged at you, you will beexposed to many dangers.Hail. To dream of hail denotes sorrow and muchgrief.Hair, To dream that you are brushing or comb¬ing your hair portends success in love, trade, orsome other pursuit; it also signifies riches; to dreamthat your hair has grown so long that it hangs loose•2 TBit' mtKAMER S DICTTOHART.XIover your shoulders denotes that one superior toyourself adores you; but if the hair is red, it denote*that you hare enemies.Hanging. Dreaming you see people hanged, o*thac you are to be executed yourself, is a sign you▼rill; by 'n'irriuirp, rise above your present condition,!.T a ftivoui " ill be asked by one in needy circum-sti-nees from you.Hatred. Dreaming of being hated by friends orfoes is a bad omen.Harrom. To dream you see white horses in theharrows is a sure sign of good news; if they areblack, deep distfs&s will befall you, as your lover willforsake you for another.Hay. To that you are making hay and therun shining, denotes great prosperity to yoa as alover; i'f marnr-d, riches and honour await you , batif the sun is under a cloud, and the rest of the work¬ers are taking their ease, it is a sure sign that youwjll get <\ husband—but you will have to work foehimfj Us. To dream of climbing up hills shews youic onic many troubles, and af-last be very rich,»rses. I <.fcam of horses is very lucky: if you^ pa. that Du see white horses, they denote speedyw j if they are black, you may expect to hear oft'n' math of an acquaintance.Ice. To dream you are sliding or skating upone shews you will be engaged in some imaginarypursuit that will elude you; if the ice breaks, youmay be certain of sickness.Infants. Dreaming of infants denotes ill healthand trouble; if they are playing, you may thereTHE DREAMER’S DICTION ART.«* # r___ ^ » r n r*oTfexpect to receive great satisfaction from a distantiland. ,Iron. To dream you are hurt with iron shews yoniwill receive some injury.Key. To dream of losing your key betokens dis¬pleasure to find one, an addition to your family;ito give one, is marriage; to receive one, the birth| of a child. .King or Queen. To dream about the king or queen,of any of the royal family, betokens disappointment,: excepting the months in which there is not an Ti,when it is a sign of great honour and prosperity.Kissing. To dream you kiss a pretty maid indi-. cates good; if she consents without any resistance,I she will be true to her lover; to dream you kiss amarried woman, and she consents, is a sign of sori: row and poverty; and that you will be unsuccessful[| in your present undertakings; it usually means1; deceit.Knife. To dream you give a knife to your intended'.i shews you will lose him or her.Ladder. To dream you climb a ladder denotesII that you will arrive at great honours; it also beto¬kens a happy marriage, and many children.Laurel. A wife to dream she smells a laurel-treeshews she will have children ; if a maid, she will besoon married to him whom she loves.Letter. To dream of receiving a letter betoken# apresent; if you send one, you will relieve a personin bad circumstances.Lice. To dream of lice is a sure sign of sickness tothose in single life; hut richer to those in the bumsried state. ... . „14 THfe dreamer’s DICTIONARY.Mad. To dream of being mad is very good; itpromises long life, riches, happy marriage, and goodchildren. . . . . w ^ . -e T -vMagpie. To dream that you see a magpie on atree without leaves is a sure sign of sorrow; two isthe sign of great mirth; three, the sign of a splen-di^ wedding; and four, the sign of death.Marriage. To dream you are married signifiesthe death of yourself or some near relation ; to jdream you assist at a wedding denotes pleasantnews and great success; to dream of lying with yourhusband or wife threatens sudden misfortunes andgreat danger.Meat. To dream of raw meat denotes trouble of avery severe description; if it is boiled, it betokensplenty of work to the tradesman, and great plentyto the family of the labourer ; to the lover, it de¬notes a happy union.“Men. Married persons dreaming that thev seemen at work in their fields, and the sun shining,denotes that they will live at their ease, and havenumerous servants; if the field is not yours, it denotesthat you will have to endure great trialsMice. To dream of mice denotes success in loveand a happy union.Milk. If you dream of milk, it promises greatnews; if you see it flowing from a woman’s breast,foretells happiness in children,and in trade.Money. To dream of getting money denotes greatsuccess in all your lawful undertakings.Moon. To dream you see the moon darkeneddenotes .sickness and death; if you see it in theihape of a full white face it indicates to the virginTHE. DREAMERS DlfiTlOMART. ll11 speedy marriage; to the wife, that ahe will harei beautiful daughter; if the husband dreams it, theiehild will be a son; to handsome and pretty womenf; is a good sign to ■' ie a full moon, but not so togly ones. ._ .. „f) p„woB ta i-diiw Hr lMulberries. To dream of mulberries betokensnstancy and affection in the married state; to tra-ellers and sailors, prosperous journeys and voyages;o the lover, it denotes a speedy union with hisweetheart. r , . 03g rir>Music. To dream you hear delicious music de¬notes joyful news from a friend who has been longlabsent; but if the notes are discordant, you will/nave a serious quarrel with one whom you highlylesteem.Myrtle. To dream of the myrtle denotes a wan-Kton woman; beware, then, with whom you keep:ceompupy;r •, * 9__ ffn- 0X .laujsnavNakedness. To dream of nakedness denotes scan-/rial; if you see a naked female, it is lucky—it de¬motes that honours await you at no very distant^period. <i&aibm SBOOiirfNews. To dream you receive news from a distantitfriend, who is on his death-bed, is good; a person israt hand to befriend you. If you are married, it be-otokeiis an addition to your family.Nightingales. To dream of the nightingale is theforerunner of fire, or thieves by night. If unmarried,a sweet, good-tempered lover. For a married wo<■ man to dream she hears this sweet warbler sing,shews that she will have children who will have thei;gift of singing, but will be in the habit of stayinglate at»ight.‘ j .,nn|,0y/1(£ TtfE bnEAMin’s MiJtToxAnf.Night. To dream you are travelling by toiglitforeteHs great rcxatidtf.^^Nosegays. To dream of gathering and makingnosegay* is unlucky, shewing that eur Lest hopesshall wither as flowers do in a nosegay.NuiS. framing of gathering nuts denotes thatyon win spend your time in pursuit of a triflingobject, wbftn you might etiinloy it to better advau-ta^ilb diiw r.oino (Dooqs e wJoasb ii .levoF odi olOak. To dream that jvn see the stately oak is asign of'long life, riches, and greatOats. If you dream of sowing oats, it foretells thatyou will have a partner who will squander all youpossess; but if you assist in the sowing, then youW’ill be consulted in all things before the money i*tpent, so beware of extravagance—ruin is beforeyou, if you do not act prudently.Oranges. To dream you are eating oranges impliesthat your feelings will he wounded, and may expectgreat grief from a quarter you little expect.Oxen.- If you dream that you see white oxen, itshews virtuous inclinations; to see fat or lean oxtusignifies present gain or misfortunes.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters foretells pros-perrty, ahd that you will be married to a lady whois really a virgin, and who will love you ; but if youshould let them fall, you will lose the affections ofthe lady, for she is betrothed to another, and willspeedily be married. oroqmsrPath. To dream you are walking in an easy pathshews that you will tie successful in love; or, if yonare married, you will obtain what you now wish for.Peaches. Nothing can be more lucky than toTHB DBEAMKR’s DICTIONARY, 17dreMa^r filches; if you are in difficulties, some•ne will befriend you ; if you are sick, you will soonget better; if misfortune Las been a constant '^isitor, fortune will dispel the dark cloud, and youwill have much wealth; to the lover, it denp.tefthegreatest joy in the married life, a numerous familyand a cleanly wife. ' s3oiti£0 saala jHwoi \crtrPeacock. To dream you see a petUSK* is a si-ayou will be married to a beautiful Wfr.'and thatyou will be very rich. '31 " ' no 10Pears. To dream o( pears betokens elevation inlife, peat honours, and riches, love that knows! notermination, and success in every pursuit you mayembark in. 7Pigeons. To dream you see a pigeon flying, andthat a feather drops, signifies you will soon receiveft letter from your sweetheart; to drop from anyother birck is a letter of business. To dream ofpigeons flying is basty news of a happy nature,’ andt£constancy in Mrofe*** him a.dnoii taanciaa JiPf«y. To dream you are at play betokens greathappiness in the married sWe, and increase' ofPlough. To dream you are following the plough,and that white horSes are in the yoke, it foretellsspeedy news ; if the horses are black, deep distress,and often death. ■>voI sm of ; 9gfiyov si/o3»<jeoi<jPlums. There cannot be a wemse dream tbah thatof plums—they are the forerunner of ill-luck to thehusbandman, the soldier, the sailor, the tradesman,the statesman, the sportsman, and the lovers whowere under promise of marriage. •fnrje. Dreaming that you fipd a purap betokens19 ttlH dreamer's DIOTIOKABT.prent and unexpected prosperity; if you ipse yourpurse, you will assist at a friend’s funeral.Quarrel. If you dream you are quarrelling, it•hews great happiness and contentment,Railway ‘train. To dream that you are m a rail¬way fourth class carriage between two men is a posi¬tive sign that good fortune awaits you; if in thethird class, and a lady sits on your left hand, bewareof an enemy; if in the second class, with your backto the engine, there is something good awaiting you;but if your face is to the engine, you may expectgreat grief in consequence of your sweetheart mak¬ing love to another. If you are in the first class,and the passengers speak to you, you will be exaltedto rank, and heir an estate; but if they don’t apeak,trouble awaits you, so prepare for the event.Rain. If you behold rain in your dream, it promiaes success in a love affair: in all other respectsIt betokens trouble and vexation.Rainbow. To dream you see a rainbow foretellssudden and agreeable news.Raspberries. To dream of raspberries denotesgreat happiness and success; to the husbandman,an abundant crop ; to the tradesman, great wealth;to the soldier, a complete victory ; to the sailor, aprosperous voyage; to the lover, a quick and happymarriage; and to the forsaken, an unexpected returnof the runaway.Rats. If you are attacked by rats, and get thebetter of them, it shews that some person will vainlytry to do you harm; but if the rats tear or force, youto run away, expect seme great misfortune to befallHB DREAMKIt's DICTIONARY. ’•Ravens a Crows. To dream you see a crow orraven betokens great mischief; it shews falsehoodKin loye.- . - a. Hiw odw gbiidhTRibbon. To dream you wear ribbons shews anentanglement in love to the single, and extravagantchildren to the married.' ^ • fl ivnffc Siii IJOy JE--J ULIRings. To dream you have a ring on your fingerdenotes marriage with the person you love; but ifthe ring drops off, it betokens death to a near friend.River. Dreaming that you see river-water clearindicates good; but to dream of swimming in thesea when it is muddy, signifies great peril anddanger. HaislRocks. A good dream for those going into busi¬ness, as it shews stability therein.Roses. To dream of these flowers in season is asure token of happiness and success; but if thesebe out of season, it indicates distress, sickness, anddisappointment; in love, they denote that yoursweetheart is true, and that you will be married, andhave many children. ^Sailing. To dream you are sailing in a ship, andthe water smooth, shews you will succeed in allyour undertakings; if you sail in a small boat,- andgain the desired haven, you will gain great riches.Sea. To dream you are walking on the sea isgood to him who would take a wife, for he shall en¬joy her. ;; ;iJj . > (9Shoes. To dream you have a pair of shoes denotessuccess in life; in love-matters, they signify mar¬riage, which will turn out an equal advantage toboth parties.Silk. To dream you are clothed iq silk signifia#20*HE DREAMERS DICTIONARY.honour. To dream that you trade with a strange sin silk denotes profit and joy.Silver. To dream of silver shews that you hav;false friends, who will attempt your ruin; in loveit denotes that your sweetheart is False, and that hiIs engaged to another.Singing. To dream that you are singing betokenasome melancholy news ; if you are unwell, it shew'a speedy recovery; if in prison, you will soon he setfree.Snow. To dream you see the ground covered witmsnow is a very good dreaih; to a young man, i(ishows he will marry a virgin, and have a largefamily.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers shows trouble,,persecutions and law suits; if they pursue you, itshows that you will be disliked by your rich neigh',4te«rafR' i aaatbir.; brus «aonnjq«rSprats. To dream of sprats denotes you will havea large family of 'children. If you dream of cootingthem, yoilr Children will give you a great deal oftrouble.Stars. To dream you behold the stars shining verybright is success to the lover, and glad news froma far country; if they fall, it denotes health andhappiness.Steam-Boat. To dream you are aboard of a steamer,and the sea is boisterous, denotes that your loverand you will quarrel; hut if the sea is calm, it is asign of a speedy marriage to the single; to the mar¬ried, it denotes great success in some favourite speculation.Sun. To dream you sea the sun shining denotes•aia Jlia ni Mhoh wt troy ffifUMTTHE dreamer’* DICTIONARY. , 21Accumulation of wealth, and filling post* of honourin the State.Sweetheart. To dretftn of your sweetheart leaving^ou and going with Another, is a very good dream ;it shews that he will prove a faithfdl' friend and aloving husband ; if you see a female taking hold}ofhis arm, beware of a rival.Swimming. To dream that you are swimming withyour head above the water shews that you will suc¬ceed in your undertakings, whatever they may be ; ‘to dream that your head is under water shews greattrouble, and that you will hear some unpleasant newsfrom an individual you thought was deceased.Swine. To dream you see swine feeding is a verybad dream ; it is a sure token of bodily distress tp thedreamer; but if one drives them away, it betoken*a speedy recovery from sipkness.Tavern. To dreardtj&u are feasting with friends1in a tavern signifies great joy and comfort to youand yours.Tea. To dream of drinking tea is a certain ^ignthat some individuals are speaking ill of you, to pre¬vent your Union with your lover; if it is sweet, aiyineither milk nor cream in it, their malice is invete¬rate ; but if there is cream or milk, and no sugar init, as soon as you are joined in wedlock, a person willbefriend you with money who. you little thought pf;but beware of him 1 * j hnr' mvoiTeeth. To dream of losing your teeth shews theloss of some friend by death, and that great trouble isabout to accompany you.Tempest. To dream yeu *e overtaken by a stormdenotes that yeu will, after .numberless hardships.92 THE DREAMER > MCTIOKaK*.arrive at happiness, and that you will become rich, t.and marry a good-natured lady.Thirst. If any one dreams his thirst is quenchedwhen thirsty, and that he hath drunk his fill ofwater, if the water did appear clear and acceptableto him, he will live very jovially, and become very ',wealthy; if the water be troubled, lukewarm, stinking, ,and dirty,he will end his days insicknessandaffliction.Thunder and Lightning. To dream of thunder orlightning denotes gain in your business; but if ithurts you, it is a sign of some calamity.Toads. To dream you destroy a toad denotes thatyou will discover a thief in whom you placed greattrust.Trees. To dream of cutting down trees betokens\erious losses in trade; but if you climb them, itdenotes advancement to honour.Trumpet. To dream you hear the sound of -atrumpet denotes troubles and misfortunes; to thelover, inconstancy in the object of his affections.Unis. To dream of urns in a churchyard is thesign of the death of a sailor or soldier belonging to▼our family. -jUmVenus. To dream you see this goddess, or a statuepr picture, denotes an intrigue in which you will beengaged; and the more important will this affairprove, if the planet Venus appears to you in a mortalform, and speaks to you, for it is a token of a Vappymarriage to either sex. ,,Vessel. If you dream you are in a sailing vesse*,and the captain is at the helm, it denotes that yonwill have a careful partner; if you are married, y04*ill rise to honour and respectability.THE DBBAME» 8 ■l Walking' To dream of walking in a dfrty pUc«fbretells sickness and vexation to the lover; it alsodenotes your sweetheart to be of a bad temper, andinconstant.Walls. If you dream of walking on weak andnarrow walls, you are sure to undertake some boldand dangerous enterprise; if you come down with-: out hurt, you will succeed; if the walls fall afteryou, you will be disappointed.Water. To dream of drinking water shews troublei and adversity; to the lover it denotes that the pre-; tensions of your sweetheart are false, he loves an-i other, and will never wed you.Wedding. To dream of a wedding is very un-’ favourable to lovers; it denotes sickness or deathof some friend or relation.Women. If you dream of meeting women on aI road, each carrying a bundle, there is some mischiefi about to happen to yout; if they are empty-handed,i and joking away to each other, it is a sign that youi will be asked to a company of friends, but bewarethat you are not entangled with some of the fair sex*• —-If you see a woman on her knees, beware, for aj vixen would fain have you.Wood. If you dream of cutting or chopping wood,i it shews you will be happy in your family circlef,i and attain, to much honour and riches in life. Todream you are carrying wood on your back shewsyou will rise to affluence oy your industry and per-•everance. i ^Wool. To dream you are buying or selling wool1 foretells gain in business by means of industry and1 perseverance; to the lover, it is a your24 THK DMAMEIt’s PieilONAH?.heait is oi an amiable disposition, very constantand deeply in love with you.Writing. When dreaming of writing a letter td:your sweetheart, if you put it in the post, you wil ;have a pleasing return; but to trust it into otheRhands, shews that your secrets will be exposed. 'Yellow To drea^i of yellow colour denotes greattrouble to the married woman from a female friend,and the loss of her husband’s affections; to thelover it signifies he will marry a virgin.Yellow-hammer. To dream of a yellow-hammerdenotes, to the young and single, that they will cer¬tainly be united in wedlock to the object of theirchoice before the expiration of the next summer.Yew-tree. To dream of a yew-tree .foretells thefuneral of a very aged person, by twhose death thedreamer will become rich, or receive a protectinghand from the relations of the deceased.Yoke. To dream you are bearing a yoke denotesdanger; if it be a female, she will be willing to obeyher husband, and will govern her family with pru¬dence and care.Young. To dream that you are young foretellspeace, delight, and great happiness.Zealander. To dream you see an Indian in hisnative dress, shews, to a man, he will travel, and toa woman, she will wed a foreigner. To dream yousee an Indian female predicts, to a man, that he wifiwed a rich widow, and to a woman, that she willhave a son who will raise himself to great powerand honour in the Indies, and bring wealth and *honour to his kindred.